Astronomers found a planet that has no land, no continents, just water from pole to pole. And its may even run deeper than anything on Earth. They have a name for this true 'water world': TOI-1452 b. [SEP] 
RECENT: Study finds just one minute of anger weakens the immune system for 5 hours [SEP] passions arising from "the mixture of love and hatred with other emotions". unsurprisingly, the violence of a passion makes it stronger; but even a calm passion can be extremely strong due to "repeated custom and its own force", especially when it has been "corroborated by reflection, and seconded by resolution". nevertheless, since "[g]enerally speaking, the violent passions have a more powerful influence on the will", hume focuses on the factors which increase the violence of passions. our passions can also acquire violence from the vivacity of our ideas. iran reacted within hours by launching missiles and drones. in four hours, he demolished stalin's reputation. he was reportedly angry if the information contradicted his views and statements. nature human behaviour 6.5 (2022): 656–665. scientific american has reported that fever itself in the second [2nd] trimester is a risk factor for autism, and therefore the claims made by the trump administration are counter-productive. the cure is mentioned to make the recipient sick for a few days after it is taken.
BREAKING: Mysterious ‘cold blob’ in the Atlantic suggests the AMOC is weakening it means a new ice age within your life time. [SEP] 
: Cannabis users had 23% higher testosterone in a new study [SEP] some research says the amount of cannabis consumed affects one's sexual experience. in a small study published in 1979, 84 graduate students, the majority of whom were men and identified as "experienced smokers", believed cannabis increased the intensity of orgasms and should be considered an aphrodisiac. men who consumed cannabis daily reported having 6.9 sexual encounters on average compared with 5.6 in those men who never consumed it. some studies show a correlation between chronic cannabis use and reduced testosterone levels in men. it has been found heavy use of cannabis decreases the sperm count of healthy men, though this reduction can be reversed. habitual use of cannabis is also linked to decreased sexual performance while increasing sexual arousal. in another study, a large portion of participants reported having increased desire and sexual satisfaction while using cannabis before sex. one study observed the risky behaviour of individuals who use cannabis. studies on cannabis however seem to be exceptionally mixed, with some claiming decreased levels on testosterone, others reporting increased levels, and with some showing no measurable changes at all. in fact, some evidence suggests that men with higher than average testosterone levels are more likely to smoke.
BREAKING NEWS: 'Negative time' confirmed: Mind-bending experiment shows light can exit a cloud of atoms before it enters, thanks to quantum physics quirk [SEP] 
A vaccine that could provide protection against multiple pathogens would be invaluable, particularly during pandemics in which knowledge of the causative pathogen is limited. In a new Science study, researchers found that a nasal vaccine designed to stimulate innate immune [SEP] 
Pediatricians are reporting increased cases of life-threatening illnesses among children as anti-vaccine sentiment surges, including: —Rotavirus —Haemophilus influenzae —Streptococcus pneumoniae [SEP] 
he use of antidepressants while pregnant does not raise the children's risk for developmental ​disorders such as autism, according to an analysis of data from more than 25 million pregnancies that appears to contradict assertions ‌by US Health Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr [SEP] 
Revolution's pancreatic cancer drug doubles survival, boosts quality of life  [SEP] 31 may – a phase 3 trial published in the new england journal of medicine reports that daraxonrasib, an investigational oral ras(on) inhibitor, nearly doubles median overall survival in patients with previously treated metastatic pancreatic cancer, from 6.6 months with standard chemotherapy to 13.2 months. a genetically engineered strain of the vaccinia virus is found to triple the average survival time of patients with a severe form of liver cancer. 13 may – researchers at nyu school of medicine identify a key protein mutation, called ras, that is the mechanism through which pancreatic cancer cells acquire nutrients. this breakthrough may allow for better treatment of advanced cancer cases, which typically respond poorly to currently available therapies. harvard university medical experts report that a carefully targeted two-drug treatment could be tailored to successfully treat almost any form of cancer. 27 september
the fda approves the first artificial pancreas. a new drug has been shown to reduce the risk of breast cancer in post-menopausal women by 53 percent. 30 august – a new drug known as lcz696 can reduce the risk of death from cardiovascular disease by 20% compared to previous treatments. 28 september – a new drug for advanced breast cancer can extend patients' lives by 15.7 months (56.5 vs. 40.8 months compared to previous treatments). a new drug, ots964, can eradicate aggressive human lung cancers transplanted into mice, with few side effects.
The world’s most popular weight-loss and diabetes drugs are linked to a powerful new possible benefit: better outcomes for cancer patients. [SEP] the use of drugs (whether chemotherapy, hormonal therapy, or targeted therapy) is systemic therapy for cancer: they are introduced into the blood stream (the system) and therefore can treat cancer anywhere in the body. since the 1990s, several novel classes of antiemetics have been developed and commercialized, becoming a nearly universal standard in chemotherapy regimens, and helping to successfully manage these symptoms in many people. in one study of people who had been newly diagnosed with incurable, stage 4 cancer, more than two-thirds of people with lung cancer and more than four-fifths of people with colorectal cancer still believed that chemotherapy was likely to cure their cancer. since then, many other drugs have been developed to treat cancer, and drug development has exploded into a multibillion-dollar industry, although the principles and limitations of chemotherapy discovered by the early researchers still apply. hence, greater effectiveness of antitumor treatment is achieved. === nutritional adjuncts ===
in the context of managing the adverse effects of chemotherapy, some research has looked at whether omega‑3 supplements might help patients mitigate toxicity and maintain their physical strength. similarly, a 2022 meta-analysis and a 2023 systematic review focusing on lung cancer patients undergoing radiotherapy and chemotherapy found that omega-3 supplementation helped improve nutritional status, such as maintaining body weight, and reduced markers of inflammation and treatment toxicity. claims of surprising benefits of smoking, based on observational data, have also been made for parkinson's disease, as well as a variety of other conditions, including basal-cell carcinoma, melanoma, acute mountain sickness, pemphigus, celiac disease, and ulcerative colitis, among others. supporters hope that greater knowledge will lead to earlier detection of breast cancer, which is associated with higher long-term survival rates, and that money raised for breast cancer will produce a reliable, permanent cure. a 2016 cochrane review concluded that morphine is effective in relieving cancer pain.
Researchers have found that flavours such as mango and watermelon have a greater impact on how genes function than other flavours Find out how the findings could have a bearing on regulatory and health issues around vaping products and their possible links to cancer and other serious diseases  [SEP] 
Even low alcohol consumption is linked to cancer, heart disease, and premature death, with increased risk above 1 drink per day for both men and women. It turns out that 2 drinks per day, considered ‘moderate’, is associated with a substantially elevated risk of a premature death caused by alcohol.
Health [SEP] 
'Alien' DNA found inside humans ─ it was inserted into our genes, mind-blowing study published in Oct, 2025 says. [SEP] the purported interstellar meteorite, technically known as cneos 2014-01-08, impacted earth in 2014, and was determined, based on its hyperbolic trajectory and estimated initial high velocity, to be from beyond the solar system. 27 april
a lineage of h3n8 bird flu is found to infect humans for the first time, with a case reported in the henan province of china. 6 may
scientists report the discovery of 830‑million-year-old microorganisms in fluid inclusions within halite that may, potentially, still be alive. according to the researchers, "this study has implications for the search for life in both terrestrial and extraterrestrial chemical sedimentary rocks." 2 june – first success of a clinical trial for a 3d bioprinted transplant, an external ear to treat microtia, that is made from the patient's own cells is reported. 23 june
the largest known bacterium, and an organism that has encapsulated dna despite being identified as a prokaryote and not an eukaryote, with an average length of 10 mm, t. magnifica is reported. 8 july – astronomers report the discovery of massive amounts of prebiotic molecules, including precursors for rna, in the galactic center of the milky way galaxy. a university reports the first successful transplantation of an organoid into a human, first announced on 7 july, with the underlying study being published in february. scientists report the discovery of ongoing transfer of mitochondrial dna into dna in the cell nucleus. 7 december
scientists report that two-million years old genetic material was found in greenland, and is currently considered the oldest dna discovered so far.
Male black widow spiders prefer well-fed females before mating to avoid being eaten Researchers found that male black widows can detect chemical cues in a female's web that reveal whether she has recently eaten, helping them choose mates while reducing the risk of cannibalism [SEP] 
The researchers found that people who had received at least one COVID vaccine dose had a higher rate of hospitalization for cancer than unvaccinated people. The adjusted hazard ratio was 1.23, meaning about a 23% higher relative rate [SEP] 
Colorectal cancer is on the rise among young people. Now it is the leading cause of cancer death in the U.S. for those under 50, according to a new analysis [SEP] these findings may suggest a reason for age being associated with the increased risk of developing colorectal cancer. colorectal cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. a 2026 study in the journal of the american medical association shows that colorectal cancer is now the primary cause of cancer-related mortality among americans younger than age 50. colorectal cancer has overtaken all other malignancies in this age group and the analysis found that deaths from colon and rectal cancers among people under 50 have increased by approximately 1.1% per year since 2005, driving a striking shift as the disease ranked fifth among cancer killers in younger adults in the early 1990s is now in 2026 is the leading cause of cancer mortality. === united states ===
in 2022, the incidence of colorectal cancer in the united states was anticipated to be about 151,000 adults, including over 106,000 new cases of colon cancer (some 54,000 men and 52,000 women) and about 45,000 new cases of rectal cancer. however, the incidence of colorectal cancer has increased in individuals aged 25 to 50. in early 2023, the american cancer society (acs) reported that 20% of diagnoses (of colon cancer) in 2019 were in patients under age 55, which is about double the rate in 1995, and rates of advanced disease increased by about 3% annually in people younger than 50. a 2026 report found colorectal cancer to be the leading cause of cancer-related deaths for both men and women under 50 years old in the united states. === incidence by age ===
the incidence of colorectal cancer in younger populations has increased over the last decade. ==== colorectal cancer ====
colorectal cancer is globally the second most common cancer in women and the third-most common in men, and the fourth most common cause of cancer death after lung, stomach, and liver cancer, having caused 715,000 deaths in 2010.
Tylenol in pregnancy not linked with autism, Danish study finds  [SEP] === september 2025 press conference on autism ===
on september 22, 2025, trump gave a press conference on the "autism crisis" and findings of the investigation led by secretary of health and human services robert f. kennedy jr., in which he claimed that they had found tylenol (paracetamol, most commonly called acetaminophen in the united states, canada, and japan) taken during pregnancy was the cause of autism, and strongly recommended the public not to take tylenol nor give it to infants. trump’s comments on tylenol seemed to be based on several studies, including a 2025 american study that summarized 46 studies that identified a slightly increased risk of autism associated with prenatal paracetamol use, but did not demonstrate causation. kennedy jr appeared to walk back his comments in an october 29, when he spoke with reporters and stated that the causative association between tylenol use in pregnancy and autism was not definitely proven but instead showed it was very suggestive. === maternal paracetamol use ===
on 24 september 2025, the world health organization stated there is no conclusive scientific evidence linking paracetamol (acetaminophen) use during pregnancy to autism. current high-quality evidence shows no causal link between prenatal use and autism or other neurodevelopmental disorders, while untreated pain or fever poses risks to both mother and fetus. in 2025, the united states food and drug administration advised physicians to minimize routine acetaminophen use during pregnancy due to unproven links to autism and adhd, while noting it remains the safest analgesic and antipyretic option in pregnancy compared to alternatives like aspirin and ibuprofen. on november 10, 2025, in response to president trump's false claim, a 2025 british medical journal umbrella review was fast-tracked and confirmed no convincing evidence that paracetamol (acetaminophen) use during pregnancy increases the risk of autism spectrum disorder (asd) or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd) in children. ==== tylenol and autism-related health policies ====

at a white house press briefing on september 22, 2025, president trump, joined by kennedy and other senior officials, said the fda would revise drug labels to discourage the use of acetaminophen in tylenol during pregnancy, citing a possible link to autism. on october 29, kennedy retracted his statements from the press conference, saying that tylenol use in pregnancy is not linked to autism. health secretary wes streeting urges pregnant women to ignore suggestions from us president donald trump that taking tylenol – better known in the uk as paracetamol – could lead to their children developing autism.
JUST IN: 'Unprecedented' cancer vaccine trial show life-changing results and successfully eradicates entire tumors [SEP] this technology is now being used to investigate novel vaccine strategies. scientists achieve a breakthrough in finding a general cure for cancer by attaching malaria proteins to cancer cells, which appears effective on 90% of cancer types. in a world first, gene-edited immune cells are used to treat 'incurable' leukaemia in a one-year-old girl. 6 january – a new way to destroy metastasizing cancer cells traveling through the bloodstream has been discovered by researchers at cornell university. a new drug, ots964, can eradicate aggressive human lung cancers transplanted into mice, with few side effects. an experimental vaccine to prevent ebola has shown promising results in a phase 1 clinical trial. 29 november–iranian scientists manage to produce a cancer cells annihilator tool that is able to remove cancer cells in an invasive process. 14 april
more than 1,000 uk patients with advanced pancreatic cancer have joined a trial using a new vaccine to treat the disease. 19 june
researchers have used a human vaccine to cure prostate cancer in mice. (bbc) (who)
a malaria vaccine has shown promising results in a clinical trial in africa.
A new study in Geophysical Research Letters provides robust confirmation that northern hemisphere atmospheric circulation on the largest scale is responding to greenhouse gas emissions. [SEP] 14 may
astronomers publish supporting evidence of water plume activity on europa, moon of the planet jupiter, based on an updated critical analysis of data obtained from the galileo space probe, which orbited jupiter between 1995 and 2003. on 20 june, nasa reported that the dust storm had grown to completely cover the entire planet. 21 august – scientists announce the first direct evidence for exposed water-ice on the moon's surface, which is found in permanently shaded regions. === september ===

3 september – astronomers present evidence that the 32,000 km (20,000 mi) wide hexagon at the north pole of the planet saturn (possibly a jet stream of atmospheric gases moving at 320 km/h (200 mph)) may be 300 km (190 mi) high, well into the stratosphere, at least during the northern spring and summer, rather than lower in the troposphere as thought earlier. 8 october
the ipcc releases its special report on global warming of 1.5 °c, warning that "rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society" are needed to keep global warming below 1.5 °c. at projected rates, the northern hemisphere and mid-latitude ozone is expected to heal completely by the 2030s, followed by the southern hemisphere in the 2050s and polar regions by 2060. the world meteorological organization (wmo) publishes its latest greenhouse gas bulletin, showing record high concentrations of heat-trapping greenhouse gases, with levels of carbon dioxide (co2) reaching 405.5 parts per million (ppm) in 2017, up from 403.3 ppm in 2016 and 400.1 ppm in 2015. the wmo reports that "there is no sign of a reversal in this trend, which is driving long-term climate change, sea level rise, ocean acidification and more extreme weather." research published in environmental research letters concludes that stratospheric aerosol injection to curb global warming is "technically possible" and would be "remarkably inexpensive" at $2 to 2.5 billion per year over the first 15 years. 23 november
volume ii of the fourth national climate assessment (nca4) is released by the u.s. government.
🚨New awesome paper led by #PhD student Sex matters under #ocean #warming 🌊 
In amphipods, #females outperform #males in heat tolerance & #metabolic plasticity. Warming may skew sex ratios toward females.  [SEP] 
Children born after a fertility struggle are more likely to show signs of autism and ADHD, according to international researchers who say this link exists regardless of whether the children were conceived using IVF or other infertility treatments. [SEP] 
Does the IPCC Exaggerate Climate Science? A new study finds the IPCC Summary for Policymakers has systematically amplified climate science beyond what the underlying report actually says [SEP] 
A review of 73 studies has highlighted growing evidence that diet in the early years of life may shape how well the brain develops: “A poorer diet in the first years of life was linked to lower intelligence years later, in adolescence” [SEP] == environmental factors ==


=== health and nutrition ===

environmental factors including childhood lead exposure, low rates of breast feeding, and poor nutrition are significantly correlated with poor cognitive development and functioning. the first two years of life are critical for malnutrition, the consequences of which are often irreversible and include poor cognitive development, educability, and future economic productivity. other scholars have found that simply the standard of nutrition has a significant effect on population intelligence, and that the flynn effect may be caused by increasing nutrition standards across the world. in a 2014 suite of meta-analyses, along with co-authors jan te nijenhuis and daniel metzen, he showed that the same negative correlation between iq gains and g-loading obtains for cognitive deficits of known environmental cause: iodine deficiency, prenatal cocaine exposure, fetal alcohol syndrome, and traumatic brain injury. children who enter school earlier and are of a younger age than their classmates are more likely to have educational and behavioural problems than their peers, which can make them more likely to be diagnosed with adhd. nutritional deprivation during childhood has lasting health effects as well. scientists report economic factors of neurology or mental health and cognition during child development: association of low income with brain structure and hippocampal volume, stronger associations in u.s. states with higher cost of living, and lower associations for stronger social safety nets for low-income-affected people. === poverty ===


=== environmental factors ===


=== diet and nutrition ===
recent findings suggest that dietary patterns may play a role in the development of mental health conditions. diets low in nutrients and high in processed foods have been associated with increased risk of mood disorders. research has also shown that disruptions in gut microbiota, which are influenced by diet, can impact inflammation, neurotransmitter function, and emotional regulation.
A University of Queensland (UQ) research team has developed a novel intranasal formulation of clozapine that could transform the treatment of schizophrenia, potentially reducing the serious side effects of this medication. [SEP] 
Electrical pulses reverse aging in sea squirts: « Findings point toward new strategies for protecting species from environmental shifts and could also have implications for mitigating age-related decline in humans. » [SEP] 
A major scientific review found that vaping may increase long-term cancer risk. Researchers discovered that e-cigarette vapor can damage DNA, trigger chronic inflammation, and contain cancer-linked chemicals and heavy metals. While scientists are still waiting for long-term human data, the early warning signs are raising serious concerns. Source: Stewart, B. W., et al. Carcinogenesis. The carcinogenicity of e-cigarettes: A qualitative risk assessment. [SEP] 
Delirium After Surgery Is a Strong Predictor of Cognitive Decline in Older Adults [SEP] delirium occurs in 11–51% of older adults after surgery, in 81% of those in the icu, and in 20–22% of individuals in nursing homes or post-acute care settings. memory impairment: the memory impairment that occurs in delirium is often due to an inability to encode new information, largely as a result of having impaired attention. a review of intravenous versus inhalational maintenance of anaesthesia for postoperative cognitive outcomes in elderly people undergoing non-cardiac surgery showed little or no difference in postoperative delirium according to the type of anaesthetic maintenance agents in five studies (321 participants). == prognosis ==
there is substantial evidence that delirium results in long-term poor outcomes in older persons admitted to hospital. in older persons admitted to hospital, individuals experiencing delirium are twice as likely to die than those who do not (meta-analysis of 12 studies). a large (n=82,770) two-centre study in unselected older emergency population found that delirium detected as part of normal care using the 4at tool was strongly linked to 30-day mortality, hospital length of stay, and days at home in the year following the 4at test date. in the only population-based prospective study of delirium, older persons had an eight-fold increase in dementia and faster cognitive decline. about 5–10% of older adults who are admitted to hospital develop a new episode of delirium while in hospital. historically, delirium has also been noted for its cognitive sequelae. delirium in the elderly may be caused by a minor problem such as constipation or by something as serious and life-threatening as a heart attack.
People love working from home but new study suggests this causes increased social isolation, anxiety, and depression | Home alone: Remote work, isolation, and mental health [SEP] social isolation aggravates pre-existing mental health issues and adds to feelings of loneliness. studies conducted during the pandemic showed that social isolation and homestay directives led to an increased reliance on screen-time to manage attention problems. social isolation that accompanies lockdown and stay at home measures for many resulted in a decrease in physical movement and activity, an increased amount of food in the home, and an increased time spent with a screen. staying at home while being restricted from socializing created a negative impact on women's mental wellbeing; they become exhausted, lonely, stressed, and worried. working from home can help to avoid overwhelming sensory or social situations, even if this means losing desirable social contact. drawbacks of social distancing can include loneliness, reduced productivity and the loss of other benefits associated with human interaction. == impact on mental health ==

there are concerns that social distancing can have adverse affects on participants' mental health. change in daily circumstances and uncertainty about the future may add onto the mental stress of being away from other people. many people worked from home instead of at their traditional workplaces. during the pandemic, a large percentage of workers in canada came to prefer working from home, which had an impact on the traditional work model.
A group of brain cells have been found to act as a “disappointment meter” | Researchers describe a specific group of neurons in the mouse brain that become active when the animal anticipates a reward but earns less than expected, or nothing at all. [SEP] 
Bumblebees know how to problem solve their way to a reward. [SEP] bumblebees gather nectar to add to the stores in the nest, and pollen to feed their young. === communication and social learning ===
bumblebees do not have ears, and it is not known whether or how well they can hear. bumblebees have also been observed to engage in social learning. furthermore, subsequent work showed that novel problem-solving behaviours can spread through bumblebee colonies via social learning under open-diffusion conditions. bumblebees use a combination of colour and spatial relationships to learn which flowers to forage from. bumblebees are also capable of buzz pollination, in which they dislodge pollen from the anthers by creating a resonant vibration with their flight muscles. bumblebee species are not normally aggressive, but may sting in defence of their nest, or if harmed. the bumblebee conservation trust considers this evidence of reduced brain function "particularly alarming given that bumblebees rely upon their intelligence to go about their daily tasks." bumblebees: their behaviour and ecology, 2003. "bumblebees" (pdf).
