Can masks reduce corona infections when worn by a large proportion of the population? [SEP] 
Does paxlovid protect unvaccinated people with risk factors from severe or even fatal covid 19 disease? [SEP] during the covid-19 pandemic, estimating the total deaths averted by vaccination was of great public health interest. instead of estimating total deaths averted by vaccination among both vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals, some studies empirically estimated only "directly averted" deaths among vaccinated individuals, typically suggesting that vaccines prevented more deaths among unvaccinated and vaccinated individuals than directly among vaccinated individuals only, due to the indirect effect. here, we define the causal estimand to quantify outcomes "directly averted" by vaccination-that is, the impact of vaccination for vaccinated individuals, holding vaccination coverage fixed-for vaccination at multiple time points, which is a lower bound on the total outcomes averted when the indirect effect is non-negative. vaccine efficacy to prevent severe covid-19 in a cohort of breast cancer patients. this study evaluated the effectiveness of covid-19 vaccination in preventing severe disease in breast cancer patients. vaccinated patients had significantly lower odds of severe disease (adjusted odds ratio: 0.027; ve: 97.3%). covid-19 vaccination was highly effective at preventing severe disease in breast cancer patients, including those receiving active cancer treatment. during the covid-19 pandemic, estimating the total deaths averted by vaccination has been of great public health interest. instead of estimating total deaths averted by vaccination among both vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals, some studies empirically estimated only "directly averted" deaths among vaccinated individuals, typically suggesting that vaccines prevented more deaths overall than directly due to the indirect effect. here, we define the causal estimand to quantify outcomes "directly averted" by vaccination-i.e., the impact of vaccination for vaccinated individuals, holding vaccination coverage fixed-for vaccination at multiple time points, and show that this estimand is a lower bound on the total outcomes averted when the indirect effect is non-negative.
Does regular HPV testing in addition to the recommended Pap smear detect more precancerous lesions than just the Pap smear alone? [SEP] 
Can monk's pepper reduce PMS symptoms? PMS is the abbreviation for premenstrual syndrome. This refers to complaints that occur in the days before menstruation. [SEP] 
Can probiotics lower blood sugar in type 2 diabetes? [SEP] the present study examined whether a multi-strain probiotic could enhance the metabolic effects of metformin and reduce gi side effects in women with newly identified elevated homa-ir. both groups showed significant improvements over time in fasting glucose (time effect p < 0.05), homa-ir (p < 0.05), rbp4 (p < 0.05), and total cholesterol (p < 0.01), with no significant group × time interactions, indicating effects attributable to metformin rather than probiotic supplementation. multi-strain probiotic supplementation did not enhance the metabolic efficacy of metformin in women with elevated homa-ir but significantly alleviated gi side effects. probiotics and curcumin did not alter low-dose streptozotocin-induced hyperglycemia and oxidative stress in a rat model. evaluation of potential anti-diabetic synbiotic formulation of  probiotics have been studied for their potential to treat chronic diseases. probiotic-fermented fruit juices provide a feasible strategy to mitigate high blood glucose. gut microbiota modulation in type 2 diabetes and cardiometabolic risk: a systematic review. cardiometabolic complications related to type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm) are often due to changes in the gut microbiota. the review analyzed studies looking at the effects of probiotics, prebiotics, high-fiber diets, and fecal microbiota transplantation (fmt) on glucose levels and heart and metabolic health in individuals either having t2dm or being at risk. microbiota-based interventions offer promising avenues for glycemic control and cardiometabolic risk reduction in patients with t2dm.
In everyday life, when breathing with an FFP2 mask or ordinary mouth-nose protection, do you get as much oxygen as without a mask? [SEP] 
Can a bioresonance device like "Bioscan" or "Vieva Vital Analyser" measure mineral and vitamin deficiencies or detect health problems? [SEP] galectin-3 (gal-3), as a biomarker involved in the inflammatory response and vascular lesion process, may have potential value in the early prediction and risk assessment of ci. valid and reliable health-related quality of life (hrqol) instruments are needed in clinical practice to quantify the burden of juvenile idiopathic arthritis (jia) and capture changes in health over time. its ability to detect improvement while remaining stable in the absence of change supports its use in longitudinal clinical studies and economic evaluations. this study is the first to examine the integration of ncd and communicable disease surveillance in the pacific. detection of in this study, the healthy cohort is decomposed into two subtypes: borderline healthy samples, defined operationally as healthy-labeled subjects that lie closer to the diseased distribution in the learned feature space, and a representative subset termed the self-tuned homogeneous healthy core (h digital databases such as pharmacovigilance (pv) databases could provide unique opportunities to monitor trends in suspected antibiotic resistance, ineffectiveness, and misuse, extending beyond their traditional role of tracking adverse drug reactions (adrs). leveraging pv data could help generate early signals of resistance and inappropriate antibiotic use and support antimicrobial stewardship in resource-constrained settings. to explore the potential use of pv databases in monitoring suspected antibiotic resistance trends and inappropriate use in lmics. these patterns likely reflect challenges in lmics' health systems, such as limited access to diagnostic tests and the need to make treatment decisions based on symptoms alone.
Does arthroscopy (joint endoscopy) help with osteoarthritis of the knee joint? [SEP] arthroscopic findings after osteochondral allografts of the knee: proposed classification scheme and associations with graft failure. nonoperative management is advised for patients with advanced osteoarthritis. end-stage knee osteoarthritis warrants nonoperative management of mmrts, and a structured postoperative protocol with limited weightbearing and range of motion is essential after repair. a simple clinical predictive model for arthroscopic mobility of osteochondritis dissecans lesions of the knee. greater improvements in knee function, activity and quality of life were observed in males. our case report highlights the importance of the arthroscopic approach to treat synovial chondromatosis, despite the involvement of the posterior compartment of the knee. an optimal preoperative imaging allows to plan for the proper surgical procedure even in patients with severe osteoarthritis. isolated arthroscopic partial meniscectomy is more effective at improving meniscal symptoms in comparison with mechanical symptoms in patients with concomitant untreated chondral lesions. to rank knee injury and osteoarthritis outcome score (koos) questions from most to least improvement after arthroscopic partial meniscectomy (apm) and compare improvement of meniscal versus mechanical symptoms. greatest improvement in 135 eligible patients was observed for questions about (1) awareness of knee problems (δ = 1.93, standard deviation [sd] = 1.38), (2) frequency of knee pain (δ = 1.93, sd = 1.29), (3) degree of difficulty while twisting/pivoting on the injured knee (δ = 1.88, sd = 1.13), (4) degree of difficulty while running (δ = 1.67, sd = 1.30), and (5) being troubled by lack of confidence in the knee (δ = 21.67, sd = 1.11).
Can regular intake of cranberry juice or cranberry extract prevent recurrent cystitis in women? [SEP] this systematic review presents the current evidence on phytotherapy for the treatment and prevention of recurrent uncomplicated cystitis. six trials of prophylaxis with cranberry products yielded mixed results with regard to efficacy against recurrent urinary tract infections. phytotherapeutic agents are an option for the treatment and prevention of recurrent cystitis in women. a multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled study evaluating the efficacy of a combination of propolis and cranberry (vaccinium macrocarpon) (duab®) in preventing low urinary tract infection recurrence in women complaining of recurrent cystitis. the purpose of the study was to compare the efficacy of a product containing cranberry and propolis (duab) to placebo for reducing frequency of cystitis in women with recurrent acute cystitis. we demonstrate for the first time that cranberry and propolis supplementation significantly reduces the incidence of utis during the first 3 months and delays the onset of an episode of cystitis. with a view to verifying whether the use of a new dietary supplement (kistinox® forte sachets) containing cranberry (vaccinium macrocarpon), noxamicina® (propolis extract) and d-mannose can be of use in the treatment of cystitis, with or without bacteriuria, through the elimination of urinary symptoms, a multicenter clinical study was conducted on 150 women aged 40 to 50 suffering from recurrent episodes of cystitis as attested by at least one positive urine culture during the six months preceding their recruitment. cranberry and recurrent cystitis: more than marketing? cranberry is a traditional folk remedy for cystitis and, which, in the form of a variety of products and formulations has over several decades undergone extensive evaluation for the management of urinary tract infections (uti). analysis of clinical studies and evaluation of the cranberry efficacy/safety ratio in the prevention of utis strongly support the use of cranberry in the prophylaxis of recurrent utis in young and middle-aged women.
Can extract from St. John's wort relieve the symptoms of depression? Is it similarly effective as drugs against depression (antidepressants)? [SEP] 
Can ginkgo extract improve mental performance in dementia patients? [SEP] ginkgo biloba extract (egb761) is being explored as an adjuvant therapy for dementia because of its potential neuroprotective effects.areas of uncertainty:despite decades of study, egb761 has not been incorporated into treatment guidelines for these conditions. in this review, we investigate the efficacy and adverse reactions of ginkgo biloba extract (egb761) as a treatment for alzheimer disease or vascular dementia. the results showed that medicinal plants, particularly sancaijiangtang and ginkgo biloba could improve behavioral and psychological symptoms, working memory, mini-mental state examination, and activities of daily living as well as neuropsychiatric features. treatment effects of ginkgo biloba extract egb 761® on the spectrum of behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia: meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. abstractbackground:in randomized controlled trials, ginkgo biloba extract egb 761® has been found to be effective in the treatment of behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (bpsd). twenty two- to twenty four-week treatment with ginkgo biloba extract egb 761® improved bpsd (except psychotic-like features) and caregiver distress caused by such symptoms. [the effect of ginkgo biloba on healthy elderly subjects]. over the past 25 years, numerous studies have confirmed the positive effect of the special ginkgo extract egb 761 on the mental ability and emotional well-being of patients with cognitive disorders of vascular genesis, and alzheimer-type dementia. the following study investigated the short-term effect of the special ginkgo extract egb 761 on the subjective emotional well-being of healthy elderly subjects. influence of the severity of cognitive impairment on the effect of the gnkgo biloba extract egb 761 in alzheimer's disease.
Does covid vaccination reduce the likelihood of getting long-lasting symptoms (long covid) in case of corona infection? [SEP] 
Do hormonal contraceptives to swallow (the "pill") affect endurance performance in women? [SEP] 
Does the pill affect the muscle strength of women?? [SEP] beyond birth control: how oral contraceptives impact skeletal muscle health - a systematic review and meta-analysis. this study investigated the effect of monophasic oral contraceptive (oc) use on self-paced cycling performance, thermoregulation, and skeletal muscle strength and contractile properties in healthy women. impact of oral contraceptive use on muscle mass and strength in women with pcos. the study aims to investigate whether oral contraceptive (oc) use affects muscle mass and strength in women with pcos. naturally menstruating women (mc, n = 13, 24 ± 4 years, weekly strength training: 4.3 ± 1.7 h) and women using a monophasic combined pill (> 9 months) (oc, n = 8, 22 ± 3 years, weekly strength training: 4.5 ± 1.9 h) were recruited. the effect of monophasic oral contraceptives on muscle strength and markers of recovery after exercise-induced muscle damage: a systematic review. effects of orally administered hormonal contraceptives on the musculoskeletal system of healthy premenopausal women-a systematic review. hormonal contraceptives can affect the musculoskeletal system; however, there is a lack of high-quality studies, and no recommendation for female athletes exists. this is a systematic review of publications on the effects of oral hormonal contraceptives on the biomechanical properties of tendons, muscles and ligaments, muscle strength, and soft tissue regeneration. no significant influence of oral hormonal contraceptives on muscle strength was found, although general muscle growth and type i fiber growth were found to be significantly increased in a dose-dependent manner.
Can low-level laser therapy reduce wrist osteoarthritis pain? [SEP] 
Does CBD (cannabidiol) relieve symptoms of mild to moderate covid-19 disease? [SEP] 
Does taking polyunsaturated fatty acids, such as omega-3 and omega-6, reduce ADHD symptoms in children? [SEP] 
Does taking probiotics shorten the duration of acute infectious diarrhea? [SEP] 
Can zinc mitigate the progression of Covid-19? [SEP] nutrition interventions through nutrition support, dietary supplementation, and home remedies such as use of zinc, selenium, vitamin d, and omega-3 fatty acids showed the most significant promise to mitigate the course of covid-19 infection and improve survival rates. potential molecular mechanisms of zinc- and copper-mediated antiviral activity on covid-19. however, zinc (zn) and copper (cu) have been shown to exert protective effects due to their antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antiviral properties. therefore, it is hypothesized that supplementation with zn and cu alone or as an adjuvant may be beneficial with promising efficacy and a favorable safety profile to mitigate symptoms, as well as halt progression of the severe form of sars-cov-2 infection. overall, this review summarizes that nutritional intervention with zn and cu may offer an alternative treatment strategy by eliciting their virucidal effects through several fundamental molecular cascades, such as, modulation of immune responses, redox signaling, autophagy, and obstruction of viral entry and genome replication during sars-cov-2 infection. effect of high-dose zinc and ascorbic acid supplementation vs usual care on symptom length and reduction among ambulatory patients with sars-cov-2 infection: the covid a to z randomized clinical trial. to examine whether high-dose zinc and/or high-dose ascorbic acid reduce the severity or duration of symptoms compared with usual care among ambulatory patients with sars-cov-2 infection. in this randomized clinical trial of ambulatory patients diagnosed with sars-cov-2 infection, treatment with high-dose zinc gluconate, ascorbic acid, or a combination of the 2 supplements did not significantly decrease the duration of symptoms compared with standard of care. early nutritional interventions with zinc, selenium and vitamin d for raising anti-viral resistance against progressive covid-19. the aim of the present article was to explore the usefulness of early micronutrient intervention, with focus on zinc, selenium, and vitamin d, to relieve escalation of covid-19.
Do herbal remedies with nasturtium and horseradish (Kren) prevent recurrent cystitis? [SEP] 
Can homeopathic remedies prevent colds in children? [SEP] use of natural health products in children: survey of parents in waiting rooms. parent and child demographic characteristics; pediatric chronic medical conditions affecting the children; prescribed medications, over-the-counter medications, and nhps used by the children; why the medications and nhps were being used, the dose, and parents' assessments of the effectiveness and side effects; and where parents had heard about the nhps, whether they had told their physicians that the children were taking the products, and where they had obtained the products. overall, 28.7% of parents reported using nonvitamin nhps for their children. these nhps were most commonly used to improve general health, improve immunity, and prevent colds and infections. approximately half of the parents (51.7%) believed their children had benefited from taking nhps, and 4.4% believed their children had experienced adverse side effects. overall, 45.5% of parents attending physicians' offices reported using nhps in their children. parents most commonly use nhps to maintain the general health of their children, to prevent colds, and to boost children's immune systems. about half of the parents believed the nhps helped, very few had noticed any side effects, and approximately half had informed their physicians that they were giving their children nhps. caractéristiques démographiques des parents et des enfants; conditions médicales chroniques affectant les enfants; médicaments sous prescription, médications en vente libre et psn donnés aux enfants; raisons pour lesquelles les médicaments et les psn étaient utilisés et à quelle dose, et évaluation que des parents de leur efficacité et de leurs effets indésirables; et comment les parents avaient entendu parler des psn, avaient-ils dit à leur médecin que les enfants prenaient ces produits et où avaient-ils obtenu ces produits. les parents utilisaient principalement ces produits pour maintenir leurs enfants en bonne santé, prévenir les rhumes et stimuler le système immunitaire.
Can homeopathic remedies relieve colds in children?? [SEP] 
Does regular exercise reduce the severity and duration of colds and other respiratory infections? [SEP] vitamin c for preventing and treating the common cold. we assessed 'incidence' of colds during regular supplementation as the proportion of participants experiencing one or more colds during the study period. 'duration' was the mean number of days of illness of cold episodes. five trials involving a total of 598 marathon runners, skiers and soldiers on subarctic exercises yielded a pooled rr of 0.48 (95% ci 0.35 to 0.64).thirty-one comparisons examined the effect of regular vitamin c on common cold duration (9745 episodes). in adults the duration of colds was reduced by 8% (3% to 12%) and in children by 14% (7% to 21%). in children, 1 to 2 g/day vitamin c shortened colds by 18%. the severity of colds was also reduced by regular vitamin c administration.seven comparisons examined the effect of therapeutic vitamin c (3249 episodes). the failure of vitamin c supplementation to reduce the incidence of colds in the general population indicates that routine vitamin c supplementation is not justified, yet vitamin c may be useful for people exposed to brief periods of severe physical exercise. regular supplementation trials have shown that vitamin c reduces the duration of colds, but this was not replicated in the few therapeutic trials that have been carried out. nevertheless, given the consistent effect of vitamin c on the duration and severity of colds in the regular supplementation studies, and the low cost and safety, it may be worthwhile for common cold patients to test on an individual basis whether therapeutic vitamin c is beneficial for them.
Can regular exercise prevent you from getting a cold or other respiratory infections??? [SEP] cough is a common symptom associated with many mild and severe medical conditions such as acute and chronic respiratory disorders. whilst often beneficial in clearing secretions, a persistent dry cough can significantly impair quality of life and necessitate pharmacological intervention. cough can be productive (clearing mucus) or dry (no mucus). dry cough often results from viral infections but can also be linked to conditions like asthma or reflux. we found strong evidence that cloperastine is effective in reducing both the intensity and frequency of cough, with benefits noticeable within 20 30 minutes of taking the medicine. similar results were achieved in adults with acute or chronic cough, even when caused by serious underlying diseases. serious respiratory infection before the age of 5 years, parental asthma or copd, and living in the inner city increases the risk for having crs in adulthood. this study specifically aimed to assess the impact of respiratory syncytial virus (rsv) infection on the longitudinal development of the airway epithelium, airway metabolism, dna methylation and subsequent childhood asthma. the covid-19 pandemic disrupted the circulation patterns of respiratory viruses. our findings underscore the critical importance of implementing timely molecular surveillance for guiding outbreak control and informing prevention strategies against respiratory pathogens.
Do saw palmetto preparations improve the symptoms of benign enlarged prostate (benign prostatic hyperplasia) in the longer term compared to placebo? [SEP] 
Does honey help against acute cough in children? [SEP] 
Can filtering out blue light using blue filter glasses or night mode settings on smartphone, tablet or laptop screens have a beneficial effect on sleep? [SEP] impact of blue light filtering glasses on computer vision syndrome in radiology residents: a pilot study. commercially available blue light filtering lenses (blfl) are advertised as improving cvs. spectral evaluation of eyeglass blocking efficiency of ultraviolet/high-energy visible blue light for ocular protection. "blue light" is more accurately differentiated into "high-energy visible blue-violet light" and "circadian rhythm blue-turquoise light." current light-emitting devices - adverse sleep properties and preventative strategies. in an effort to enhance the efficiency, brightness, and contrast of light-emitting (le) devices during the day, displays often generate substantial short-wavelength (blue-enriched) light emissions that can adversely affect sleep. both the orange-tinted glasses and the "sleep-aware" app significantly reduced short-wavelength emissions. since this type of light is likely to cause the most disruption to sleep as it most effectively suppresses melatonin and increases alertness, there needs to be the recognition that at night-time "brighter and bluer" is not synonymous with "better." ideally future software design could be better optimized when night-time use is anticipated, and hardware should allow an automatic "bedtime mode" that shifts blue and green light emissions to yellow and red as well as reduce backlight/light intensity. if the blue light used for yfp excitation is blocked from the transmitted light detector with a cheap, coloured glass filters, the non-absorbed green light will form an improved transmitted light image.
Can regular intake of vitamin C prevent colds? [SEP] almost half (47.8%) the athletes who used supplements did so to prevent or reduce cold symptoms. vitamin c and acute respiratory infections. so far over 60 studies have examined the effects of vitamin c on the common cold. no effect on common cold incidence was observed in the six largest studies, indicating that vitamin c has no preventive effects in normally nourished subjects in the western countries. in three trials of subjects under heavy acute physical stress, common cold incidence decreased by on average 50%, and in four trials of british males common cold incidence decreased by on average 30% in the vitamin c groups. regular vitamin c supplementation (> or =1 g/day) has quite consistently reduced the duration of colds, but the size of the benefit has varied greatly. three controlled studies recorded a reduction of at least 80% in the incidence of pneumonia in the vitamin c group, and one randomised trial reported substantial treatment benefit from vitamin c in elderly uk patients hospitalized with pneumonia or bronchitis. the value of the dehydroepiandrosterone-annexed vitamin c infusion treatment in the clinical control of chronic fatigue syndrome (cfs). winter illness and vitamin c: the effect of relatively low doses. these results are compatible with the belief that supplementary vitamin c can reduce the burden of winter illness, but the intake need not be as high as has sometimes been claimed.
Can taking vitamin C after the onset of a cold relieve symptoms or shorten the illness? [SEP] the skin rarely diagnoses hantavirus alone, but it may shorten time to testing, supportive care, and public-health notification. efficacy and safety of kanggan mixture for influenza: protocol for a multicenter open-label randomized controlled trial. kanggan mixture (kgm), an in-hospital traditional chinese medicine preparation at jiangsu province hospital of chinese medicine, has been widely used in clinical practice for influenza treatment, showing favorable effects on fever reduction and symptom improvement; however, high-quality comparative evidence on the efficacy and safety of kgm remains limited. this study aims to determine whether kgm is noninferior to oseltamivir in improving the clinical outcomes in patients with influenza and to assess the safety profile of kgm. secondary outcomes include time to defervescence, time to onset of antipyretic effect, individual influenza symptom scores, and total influenza symptom scores. this protocol describes a multicenter randomized controlled trial designed to generate comparative evidence on the efficacy and safety of kgm for influenza treatment. the findings of this study are expected to provide initial clinical evidence supporting the use of kgm in the treatment of influenza, clarify its therapeutic value as a potential alternative to oseltamivir, and offer a novel alternative strategy for influenza management while contributing to the evidence base for integrating traditional chinese medicine into influenza care. treating these conditions early and effectively is important to help people live longer and healthier lives. more importantly, they lower the risk of being admitted to hospital for heart failure and slow the worsening of kidney disease.large studies showed that some agents of this group are effective treatments for heart failure and chronic kidney disease, even in people without diabetes. levosimendan, a calcium sensitiser, has been shown to improve respiratory muscle function.
Do remedies with ginseng help with erectile dysfunction? [SEP] 
Can capsules or tablets with lactase improve the symptoms of lactose intolerance and make dairy products more tolerable? [SEP] the three-in-one puncture technique has shown preliminarily promising results in patients with knee osteoarthritis (oa). long-term follow-up demonstrates its longer-lasting analgesic effects and higher patient satisfaction, indicating substantial clinical applicability. this method ensures more thorough and safer radiofrequency management of pain caused by knee osteoarthritis. after a 1-week run-in period, participants are randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either  this study is designed to evaluate the therapeutic potential of  https://www.chictr.org.cn/, chictr2400086743, identifier, chictr2400086743. the lnc and gac were separated from the antero-inferior marginal part of the nasal capsule cartilage at 10-12 weeks. lightgastroformer: a lightweight multi-resolution transformer for gastrointestinal disease classification. three public benchmarks are used to evaluate lightgastroformer: kvasir v1, kvasir v2, and the extensive kvasir-capsule dataset. in vivo studies conducted in rats revealed that slb-7-odda-lais exhibited a relative bioavailability of 613.60% compared with marketed slb capsules, along with significantly prolonged half-life. the intraosseous injection of liposomal bupivacaine may be a potentially effective method for post-tka analgesia, significantly promoting early walking and functional recovery after tka. to investigate this, intact female rats were implanted subcutaneously with either cholesterol- (experiment 1) or lng- (experiment 2) capsules.
Does the drug remdesivir prevent COVID-19 deaths? [SEP] the food and drug administration (fda) authorized three covid-19 antivirals, including remdesivir, nirmatrelvir/ritonavir, and molnupiravir. survival analysis of drug effectiveness of remdesivir and dexamethasone for confirmed covid-19 patients using japanese medical claim data. earlier studies and clinical trials have demonstrated that drugs, such as antiviral drugs, antibody cocktails, and steroids and anti-inflammatory drugs, can be expected to prevent severe covid-19 outcomes and death. remdesivir and dexamethasone did not demonstrate a clear survival benefit among hospitalized covid-19 patients requiring oxygen administration or respiratory ventilation. antiviral agents, such as remdesivir and nirmatrelvir-ritonavir, inhibit viral replication and immunomodulatory agents, such as tocilizumab and baricitinib, act to reduce a dysregulated immune response to sars-cov-2. effectiveness and safety of remdesivir and nirmatrelvir-ritonavir in mild to moderate covid-19 in spanish hospital emergency departments. remdesivir and nirmatrelvir-ritonavir (ntv/r) are the antiviral drugs available in spain to prevent progression of mild-moderate covid-19 in vulnerable populations. early use of ntv/r was associated with less risk of progression of mild to moderate covid-19 in vulnerable patients, while no differences were found between remdesivir and soc. effectiveness of drugs employed in the treatment of covid-19: real-world evidence. intranasal liposomal remdesivir induces sars-cov-2 clearance in k18-hace2 mice and ensures survival.
Does magnetic resonance therapy improve complaints of knee osteoarthritis or herniated discs (e.g. pain)? [SEP] moreover, it is unknown whether strain or stiffness of the disc may be predicted by mri relaxometry (e.g., time-dependent quantitative magnetic resonance imaging staging of lumbar disc herniation using t2 signal-intensity ratios. lumbar disc herniation (ldh) commonly causes radiculopathy, yet conventional magnetic resonance imaging may conflate symptomatic pathology with age-related change. this retrospective cross-sectional study analyzed 157 patients (64% male) with magnetic resonance imaging-confirmed ldh and radicular symptoms at a tertiary center (2021). lumbar disc herniation—the significance of symptom duration for the indication for surgery. in this paper, we report the current treatment recommendations for patients with symptomatic disc herniation. this review is based on pertinent publications retrieved by a selective literature search in pubmed using the terms [timing] and [lumbar disc herniation], supplemented by other relevant articles and guidelines. symptoms resolve in 60% to 80% of patients with herniated discs in 6-12 weeks, and in 80% to 90% over the long term (≥ 1 year). this report describes the case of a 62-year-old female with complaints of bilateral knee pain who was originally diagnosed with osteoarthritis based on clinical exam and x-rays. two magnetic resonance imaging (mri) scans were done three years apart, with synovial osteochondromatosis being on the differential after the second scan.
Are oral zinc supplements effective for treating a cold (chill)? [SEP] 
Do probiotics alleviate the symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome? [SEP] probiotics for irritable bowel syndrome: an updated systematic review and meta-analysis with trial sequential analysis. recent years have seen greater interest, and hence, many trials published on the topic of probiotics as a treatment for irritable bowel syndrome (ibs). overall, probiotics demonstrated significant improvements in ibs-sss (md: 33.42, 95% confidence interval [ci]: -55.96 to -10.88, p < 0.01) but nonsignificant improvements in ibs-qol (md: 1.79, 95% ci: -3.00-6.57, p = 0.46).  irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) is a prevalent gastrointestinal disorder, often accompanied by low-grade inflammation, visceral hypersensitivity and gut microbiota dysbiosis. pathophysiological mechanisms and nonpharmacological interventions in irritable bowel syndrome: current insights and future directions. although there is currently no known cure for irritable bowel syndrome, research supports stress management and behavioural therapies, a low fermentable oligosaccharides, disaccharides, monosaccharides and polyols (fodmap) diet, and probiotic supplementation as key interventions to alleviate symptoms. this literature review explores the pathophysiological mechanisms relating to irritable bowel syndrome, with insight into current interventions and future directions to directly address the underlying factors driving symptomology. therapeutic modulation of the gut microbiome by supplementation with probiotics (sci microbiome mix) in adults with functional bowel disorders: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. comparative effectiveness and safety of probiotics with psychotropic potential in mental health benefits in irritable bowel syndrome: a systematic review and network meta-analysis. the use of probiotics as a treatment for irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) is gaining attention, with recent studies indicating that certain probiotics or combinations may have mental health benefits for patients with ibs.
Is ivermectin an effective drug for treating covid 19 disease? [SEP] safety and tolerability of multimodal therapy (ivermectin, doxycycline, vitamin c, vitamin d, and zinc) with or without famotidine in australian patients with covid-19 infection: a pilot cohort trial. the multimodal therapy for acute covid-19 was safe and well tolerated. safety and efficacy of different therapeutic regimens in egyptian adults with moderate covid-19 infection (everest): a real-world retrospective study. these regimens demonstrated efficacy in treating moderate covid-19 to prevent disease progression and complications. ivermectin inhibits replication of porcine deltacoronavirus  porcine deltacoronavirus (pdcov) is an emerging swine enteric coronavirus that threatens the pig industry and acts as a viral spillover, infecting other farm animals and potentially humans. this study investigated ivermectin (ivm) for its antiviral effect on pdcov  the antiviral effects and mechanism of action of ivm against pdcov were evaluated using various virological assays. early in the pandemic three drugs were identified as repurposing candidates for the treatment of covid-19: (i) hydroxychloroquine, an anti-malarial also used to treat rheumatoid arthritis and lupus; (ii) ivermectin, an antiparasitic approved for both human and veterinary use; (iii) remdesivir, an anti-viral originally developed to treat hepatitis c. the scientific evidence, both for and against the efficacy of these three drugs as treatments for covid-19, vied with public demand and politicization as unqualified opinions clashed with evidence-based medicine. enhancing intracellular uptake of ivermectin through liposomal encapsulation. ivermectin (ivm), an antiparasitic drug approved by the food and drug administration (fda), is widely used to treat several neglected tropical diseases, including onchocerciasis, helminthiases, and scabies. additionally, ivm has shown potential as a potent inhibitor of certain rna viruses, such as sars-cov-2.
Does carnosine relieve autism symptoms in children? [SEP] oral supplementation of l-carnosine attenuates acute-stress-induced corticosterone release and mitigates anxiety in cd157 knockout mice. corticosterone, an end product of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (hpa) axis, is a crucial stress hormone. a dysregulated hpa axis and corticosterone release play pivotal roles in the onset and persistence of symptoms of stress-related psychiatric disorders, such as anxiety. the intake of nutrients, probiotics, and prebiotic supplements decreases blood corticosterone levels. the dipeptide l-carnosine is composed of beta-alanine and l-histidine and is commercially available as a nutritional supplement for recovery from fatigue. l-carnosine is involved in stress-induced corticosterone responses and anxiety behaviors in rodents. here, we assessed the effect of l-carnosine in cd157 knockout (ko) mice, a murine model of autism spectrum disorder (asd). the uptake of l-carnosine suppressed the increase in plasma corticosterone levels in response to acute stress and attenuated anxiety-like behaviors in cd157 ko mice. these results suggest that l-carnosine supplementation may relieve anxiety by suppressing excessive stress responses in individuals with asd.
Can ginkgo extract relieve the symptoms of tinnitus? [SEP] clinical improvement of memory and other cognitive functions by ginkgo biloba: review of relevant literature. ginkgo biloba is a plant extract used to alleviate symptoms associated with cognitive deficits, e.g., decreased memory performance, lack of concentration, decreased alertness, tinnitus, and dizziness. pharmacologic studies have shown that the therapeutic effect of ginkgo is based on several active constituents with vasoactive and free radical-scavenging properties. the use of ginkgo extract in either dementias of the alzheimer or multi-infarct type or in the case of cerebral insufficiency, a symptom complex related to age-dependent impairment of cerebral circulation, is based mainly on positive results from good-quality placebo-controlled studies that enrolled approximately 1,200 patients with criteria established by international classification of diseases (9th and 10th revisions, icd-9 and icd-10) or the 3rd revision of the diagnostic and statistical manual (dsm-iii-r) (uncomplicated dementia). effect on cognitive symptoms was within the range of a 25% reduction. memory, concentration, and alertness were the first symptoms to be relieved, with tinnitus and dizziness improving somewhat later. a minimum of 4 to 6 weeks were needed before a pronounced effect could be expected. the pharmacologic advantage of ginkgo seems to be a very tolerable side-effect profile, with a side-effect frequency at the placebo level.
Does a nasal spray with carrageenan from red algae relieve discomfort from a cold ("chill")? [SEP] 
Can inhalation with budesonide spray relieve symptoms of covid-19? [SEP] 
Are rapid antigen tests as reliable as slower PCR tests? Does a negative (inconspicuous) rapid test result reliably exclude an infection with the coronavirus? [SEP] 
Are heavy (ex-)smokers less likely to die of lung cancer if they regularly participate in lung cancer screening by computed tomography (CT)? [SEP] 
Can lung cancer screening by computed tomography (CT) also do harm??? [SEP] reframing computed tomography-associated cancer concerns in lifesaving screening: keeping the focus on lives saved. our viewpoint addresses renewed controversy surrounding cancer risks from ct radiation exposure, particularly in the context of ldct lung cancer screening and early detection. ct screening challenges amid rising threat of lung cancer in individuals who have never smoked. lung cancer detection using computed tomography (ct) imaging is a critical task for early diagnosis and improved patient outcomes. artificial intelligence-assisted image analysis may be cost-effective in screening for lung cancer but not for symptomatic populations. identifying and monitoring lung nodules using computed tomography scans are the primary means of detecting lung cancer at earlier stages. our early assessment suggests that artificial intelligence software might be cost-effective for lung cancer screening but might not be cost-effective for people who have symptoms or who have a computed tomography scan for other reasons. how i do it: management of pleural-attached pulmonary nodules in low-dose ct screening for lung cancer. in various trials, the ability of low-dose ct screening to diagnose early lung cancers leads to high cure rates. it is widely accepted that the potential benefits of low-dose ct screening for lung cancer outweigh the harms.
Does hydroxychloroquine reduce the likelihood of dying from covid-19 disease? [SEP] 
Does hydroxychloroquine prevent covid-19 infection??? [SEP] exploring the long-term hydroxychloroquine's effects on covid-19 outcomes in patients with autoimmune diseases: a systematic review and meta-analysis. hydroxychloroquine (hcq) usage in covid patients was a popular topic of study, especially during the first wave of the pandemic. however, the long-term impact of hcq therapy on infected covid-19 patients remains unclear. in 14 observational studies (196,965 patients), hcq use was associated with a lower overall mortality rate by 21% in patients with autoimmune diseases and covid-19 (rr 0.79; 95% ci: 0.64-0.97, p = 0.02). hcq was associated with a significantly lower overall mortality rate in patients with autoimmune diseases and covid-19; this association is consistent with its known immunomodulatory properties. use of chloroquine, hydroxychloroquine or ivermectin for covid-19 prevention in vulnerable brazilian populations. to explore factors associated with the use of chloroquine, hydroxychloroquine, and ivermectin for covid-19 prevention in socioeconomically vulnerable populations in brazil. data were collected via a socioeconomic questionnaire and analyzed using logistic regression to assess factors associated with the use of chloroquine, hydroxychloroquine, or ivermectin for covid-19 prevention. among 7,505 participants, 11.7% reported using chloroquine, hydroxychloroquine, or ivermectin for covid-19 prevention. the chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine for the prevention of covid-19 (copcov) trial, a large multi-country clinical trial sponsored by the university of oxford, sought to determine the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine as a prophylaxis for covid-19 but faced approval delays and other bureaucratic challenges.
Does treatment with cortisone-like drugs such as dexamethasone ensure that more critically ill patients survive Covid 19 disease? [SEP] 
Can Echinacea protect against colds? [SEP] herbal remedies of echinacea purpurea tinctures are widely used today to reduce common cold respiratory tract infections. these results suggest that immunomodulation by echinaforce® treatment holds promise to reduce symptoms and duration of infection episodes of common cold corona viruses (cov), severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars)-cov, and new occurring strains such as sars-cov-2, with strongly impaired interferon (ifn) response and weak innate antiviral defense. in vitro virucidal activity of echinaforce®, an echinacea purpurea preparation, against coronaviruses, including common cold coronavirus 229e and sars-cov-2. we also determined the protective effect of echinaforce® in re-constituted nasal epithelium. echinacea purpurea has been widely used for the prevention and treatment of upper respiratory tract infections and the common cold. [a preliminary survey on the interest of eating probiotics, cypress and echinacea to prevent the apparition of winter infections]. treatment of the common cold. although hydrocodone is widely used and has been shown to effectively treat cough caused by other conditions, the drug has not been studied in patients with colds. complementary and alternative therapies (i.e., echinacea, vitamin c, and zinc) are not recommended for treating common cold symptoms; however, humidified air and fluid intake may be useful without adverse side effects. the latest studies also fail to show any prophylactic effect of echinacea extracts on the duration or severity of colds.
Can light therapy with light lamps relieve the symptoms of autumn-winter depression? [SEP] 
Does taking coenzyme Q10 improve movement disorders in Parkinson's disease? [SEP] neuroprotective effects of coenzyme q10 in parkinson's model via a novel q10/mir-149-5p/mmps pathway. parkinson's disease (pd) is a complex neurodegenerative disease in which the understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms can be constructive in the diagnosis and treatment. hence, in the present study, we aimed to evaluate coq10 and mir-149-5p mimic on mir-149-5p, mmps and th expression, and behavioral functions of the pd models. pd was induced by injection of 6-ohda into the rats' medial forbrain bundle (mfb). the behavioral tests, including the rotation test, rotarod test, and open field test, have been directed two weeks after pd induction. next, the mir-149-5p mimic (mir-mimic) and coq10 have been administered to rats. the same behavioral tests have been evaluated two weeks after administration to investigate the effect of mir-149-5p mimic and coq10. rt-qpcr analysis has represented upregulation and downregulation of mir-149-5p and mmp-2,9, respectively, after mir-mimic and coq10 treatment. the treated rats have also represented improved motor function and increased th +  cells in the striatum according to the behavioral tests and immunohistochemistry assay. taking together mir-149 and coq10 has shown to have an impressive potential to prevent damage to dopaminergic neurons caused by 6-ohda injection through reducing mmp-2,9, increased th expression, and improved motor function.
Does treatment with focused high-intensity ultrasound (HIFU) reduce abdominal girth? [SEP] 
Does melatonin help against jet lag? [SEP] maladaptive cardiomyocyte calcium handling in adult offspring of hypoxic pregnancy: protection by antenatal maternal melatonin. chronic fetal hypoxia is one of the most common complications of pregnancy and can programme cardiac abnormalities in adult offspring including ventricular remodelling, diastolic dysfunction and sympathetic dominance. however, the underlying mechanisms at the level of the cardiomyocyte are unknown, preventing the identification of targets for therapeutic intervention. therefore, we aimed to link echocardiographic data with cardiomyocyte function to reveal cellular mechanism for cardiac dysfunction in rat offspring from hypoxic pregnancy. further, we investigated the potential of maternal treatment with melatonin as antenatal antioxidant therapy. wistar rats were randomly allocated into normoxic (21% o
Are international travel restrictions and border health checks effective in curbing the spread of covid-19? [SEP] 
Does denosumab (Prolia) reduce the risk of vertebral fractures in osteoporosis? [SEP] efficacy of denosumab versus zoledronate on preventing secondary osteoporotic vertebral compression fracture: a prospective study with 2-year follow-up. denosumab and zoledronate, both recognized as first-line antiresorptive agents, are among the most widely administered drugs for osteoporotic patients experiencing vertebral compression fractures (vcfs). to evaluate the comparative preventive efficacy of denosumab versus zoledronate against secondary vcfs in postmenopausal women with primary osteoporosis and pre-existing vcfs. among postmenopausal women with prevalent osteoporotic vcfs, the administration of denosumab versus zoledronate demonstrated superior efficacy in preventing early secondary vcfs within the first year. efficacy of sequential denosumab after teriparatide for 6 months compared with denosumab monotherapy in reducing risk of osteoporotic fractures in patients with new fractures: a multicentre randomised controlled trial (stand study) protocol. this study aims to evaluate the efficacy of a novel sequential treatment with teriparatide daily for 6 months followed by denosumab every 6 months for another 18 months, in comparison with denosumab monotherapy every 6 months for 24 months, in reducing the risk of fractures in patients with newly diagnosed osteoporotic fractures. long-term effect on bone mineral density of denosumab in the treatment of hyperpituitarism driven osteoporosis: an exploratory study. denosumab, an antiresorptive bone active drug, increased bone mineral density (bmd) and reduced incidence and risk of fractures in primary osteoporosis. this study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of denosumab in patients with pituitary disease-driven osteoporosis. this review focuses on the therapeutic benefits of denosumab for its antiresorptive and antifracture effect in women with early breast cancer treated with ais, risks related to denosumab discontinuation after treatment with ais, prevention, and potential interventions for its associated fracture risk.
Do people with blood group AB have a higher risk of developing dementia? [SEP] plasma biomarkers and clinical outcomes in early-onset dementia. to investigate plasma biomarker trajectories and their associations with clinical outcomes in early-onset alzheimer disease (eoad) and frontotemporal dementia (ftd). in the eoad group, higher log2-transformed baseline p-tau217, gfap, and nfl were each associated with faster decline in the mmse score (association estimate [se], -0.390 [0.127], p = .002; -0.775 [0.164], p < .001; and -0.679 [0.182], p < .001, respectively) and the cdr-sb score (estimate [se], 0.401 [0.099], p < .001; 0.535 [0.126], p < .001; and 0.693 [0.122], p < .001, respectively). in this cohort study of patients with eoad and ftd, baseline p-tau217, gfap, and nfl were consistently associated with clinical outcomes in the eoad group, whereas gfap and nfl were associated with cognition only in the ftd group. individuals with specific anatomical variants may be at elevated risk of intracranial arteriosclerosis, and possibly its sequelae of stroke and dementia, as the distribution of blood flow and pressure is known to be different in variants with missing arteries or arterial segments. to examine the association between depressive symptoms and amyloid pathology and its dependency on age, sex, education, and apoe genotype in older individuals without dementia. when considering subgroup effects, in individuals with nc, the presence of depressive symptoms was associated with a higher frequency of amyloid pathology in apoe ε4 noncarriers (mean difference, 5.0%; 95% ci 1.0-9.0; p = .02) but not in apoe ε4 carriers. the projected increase in global dementia rates is expected to affect lmics disproportionately. highlights: two-thirds of persons with dementia live in lmics, yet research and costs are skewed toward hics. lmics expect dementia prevalence to more than double, accompanied by socioeconomic disparities.
Does therapeutic dancing help people with Parkinson's improve their movement problems? [SEP] 
Is it possible to reliably detect coronavirus infection based only on symptoms but without laboratory testing? [SEP] sars-cov-2: challenges in reconverting diagnostic laboratories to combat the pandemic. we set up to develop an expeditious severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2) molecular diagnostic service through the implementation of standardized protocols for biospecimen sampling, transportation, biobanking, preanalytical validation, and nucleic acids (na) testing (nat). viral rna genome presence was determined using commercial sars-cov-2 detection kits (based on reverse transcription coupled with real-time pcr [rt-pcr]). comparison of 2 fully automated tests detecting antibodies against nucleocapsid n and spike s1/s2 proteins in covid-19. automated assays for detecting severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2) antibodies in coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) diagnostics have recently come available. based on our results, the sars-cov-2 antibodies can be quite reliably detected 2 weeks after naat positivity and 3 weeks after the symptom onset with both tests. application of a portable instrument for rapid and reliable detection of sars-cov-2 infection in any environment. the ongoing outbreak of the novel coronavirus (sars-cov-2) infection is creating serious challenges for health laboratories that seek to identify viral infections as early as possible, optimally at the earliest appearance of symptom. indeed, there is urgent need to develop and deploy robust diagnostic methodologies not only to use in health laboratory environments but also directly in places where humans circulate and spread the virus such as airports, trains, boats, and any public aggregation places. the success of a reliable and sensitive asymptomatic diagnosis relies on the identification and measurement of informative biomarkers from human host and virus in a rapid, sensitive, and inexpensive manner.
Can induction of labor prevent infant deaths in pregnancies that go beyond the estimated due date? Does it reduce the number of neonatal intensive care unit stays? [SEP] 
Does induction of labor make cesarean sections less necessary than observational waiting? [SEP] 
Does the number of deliveries with a vacuum cup and forceps remain similar with induction and observational waiting??? [SEP] 
Does taking supplements with omega-3 fatty acids reduce the risk of heart attack, stroke or other sudden cardiovascular problems?  Does it lower the risk of dying prematurely? [SEP] effects of omega-3 fatty acids on coronary revascularization and cardiovascular events: a meta-analysis. benefits of pharmacologic omega-3 fatty acid administration in cardiovascular prevention are controversial. we investigated incident coronary revascularizations, myocardial infarction (mi), stroke, heart failure (hf), unstable angina, and cardiovascular death, in subjects randomized to receive epa or epa + docosahexaenoic acid (epa + dha) vs. control. overall, compared with controls, omega-3 supplementation reduced the risk of revascularization [0.90, 95% confidence interval (ci) 0.84-0.98; p = 0.001; p-heterogeneity = 0.0002; i2 = 68%], mi (0.89, 95% ci 0.81-0.98; p = 0.02; p-heterogeneity = 0.06; i2 = 41%), and cardiovascular death (0.92, 95% ci 0.85-0.99; p = 0.02; p-heterogeneity = 0.13; i2 = 33%). omega-3 fatty acid supplementation reduced the risk of cardiovascular events and coronary revascularization, regardless of background statin use. it is debated whether pharmacologic administration of omega-3 fatty acids reduces cardiac events. in this meta-analysis of all published evidence of clinical trials comparing epa alone or epa + dha vs. control (134 144 participants), we demonstrate the following:in the overall analysis of all trials, omega-3 supplementation reduced the risk of myocardial infarction and cardiovascular death, to a modest extent. importantly, these benefits were also observed in subjects who were already taking statins as part of their chronic therapy.administration of omega-3 fatty acids, particularly epa alone, was also associated with a substantial decrease in the risk for subsequent coronary revascularizations. omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids supplementation and cardiovascular outcomes: do formulation, dosage, and baseline cardiovascular risk matter? finally, epa + dha supplementation was only associated with a significant risk reduction of cardiac death compared with epa administered alone (-8 %).
Can taking dietary supplements with omega-3 fatty acids prevent further heart attacks or strokes if one has already had a heart attack?  In this case, does it lower the risk of dying prematurely?? [SEP] effects of omega-3 fatty acids on coronary revascularization and cardiovascular events: a meta-analysis. overall, compared with controls, omega-3 supplementation reduced the risk of revascularization [0.90, 95% confidence interval (ci) 0.84-0.98; p = 0.001; p-heterogeneity = 0.0002; i2 = 68%], mi (0.89, 95% ci 0.81-0.98; p = 0.02; p-heterogeneity = 0.06; i2 = 41%), and cardiovascular death (0.92, 95% ci 0.85-0.99; p = 0.02; p-heterogeneity = 0.13; i2 = 33%). omega-3 fatty acid supplementation reduced the risk of cardiovascular events and coronary revascularization, regardless of background statin use. it is debated whether pharmacologic administration of omega-3 fatty acids reduces cardiac events. omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids supplementation and cardiovascular outcomes: do formulation, dosage, and baseline cardiovascular risk matter? omega-3 (n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids) has demonstrated its ability to reduce global mortality, obtaining an indication for the prevention of sudden death in patients with myocardial infarction of the anterior wall. the results showed that omega-3 treatment produced a significant reduction of ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias compared with placebo, without modification of heart rate, intra-cardiac conduction and contractility.a recent meta-analysis of studies conducted on omega-3 and possible reduction of cardiovascular events concluded that no significant beneficial effects are related to omega-3 treatment on reducing death for all cardiovascular events. [effect of ω-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids on predictors of sudden cardiac death in patients with ischemic heart disease and ventricular rhythm disturbances]. effects of dietary fat intake in sudden death: reduction of death with omega-3 fatty acids. a recent study of 11,324 patients showed a marked decrease in risk of sudden cardiac death as well as a reduction in all-cause mortality in the post-myocardial infarction group taking a highly purified form of omega-3 fatty acids, added to the use of other secondary prevention drugs, including b-blockers and lipid-lowering therapy.
Is music therapy with rhythmic training helpful for people with Parkinson's who have trouble walking? [SEP] 
Do preparations with unsaponifiable components of avocado and soybean oils (ASU) help against limitations and pain in osteoarthritis of the knee joint? [SEP] 
Do preparations with unsaponifiable components of avocado and soybean oils (ASU) help against limitations and pain in osteoarthritis of the hip joint? [SEP] 
Is it safe to take preparations containing unsaponifiable components of avocado and soybean oils (ASU)? [SEP] 
Can taking chondroitin relieve osteoarthritis pain or improve mobility in the long term? [SEP] [a multi-center cross-sectional survey of medicine application in patients with osteoarthritis in china]. to investigate the clinical characteristics, the medicine application and to evaluate the disease activity in patients with osteoarthritis (oa) in china. in the study, 242 (22.7%) cases had two kinds of joint areas involved and three joint areas were involved in 51 cases (4.8%), and 56.6% (603/1 066) of the patients used more than one kind of non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) while 61.2% (652/1 066) used disease modifying osteoarthritis drugs (dmoads), including glucosamine (37.5%, 400/1 066), chondroitin sulfate (2.0%, 21/1 066), diacetate (5.9%, 63/1 066), and the combination of these drugs (15.8%, 168/1 066). moreover, there were significant differences in pain (z=-7.625, p<0.001), morning stiffness (z=-6.229, p<0.001), and joint function (z=-6.777, p<0.001) between the two groups of the patients who suffered from knee or hip oa with the western ontario and mcmaster universities (womac) osteoarthritis index. furthermore, patients with hip oa took more analgesics (χ oral nsaids and dmoads are wildly used in patients with oa in china. [combined medication artra in the treatment of osteoarthrosis]. to study clinical effectiveness, safety and duration of the effect of combined medication artra (500 mg glucosamine hydrochloride+500 mg chondroitine sulphate) in osteoarthrosis. ninety women aged 40-75 suffering from knee oa and satisfying diagnostic criteria for oa of american rheumatological committee having x-ray ii-iii stages according to kellgren-lawrence; with distinct pain syndrome (pain intensity at walking 40 mm and more by the analogue visual scale); taking nsaids regularly during 30 days within 3 months before the study were enrolled in the study. 3 months after the treatment the study group patients experienced continuous reduction of the functional index and pain intensity unlike of the control patients experiencing a pain increase and worsening of joints functional ability. combined artra medication decreases pain, improves joint function.
Does taking vitamin K lower the risk of spinal fractures in older women? [SEP] 
Does taking vitamin K lower the risk of other bone fractures in older women? [SEP] 
Can red mold rice products lower blood cholesterol levels? [SEP] red yeast rice, also called red fermented rice or red mold rice, is used as a dietary supplement to lower cholesterol levels. previous studies have demonstrated a cholesterol-lowering effect of red yeast rice (ryr) supplements which contained 5 to 10 mg of monacolin k. we hypothesized that the intake of a low monacolin k dose may likewise reduce low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (ldl-c) and other plasma lipids. monascus purpureus-fermented thai glutinous rice reduces blood and hepatic cholesterol and hepatic steatosis concentrations in diet-induced hypercholesterolemic rats. red yeast rice (ryr) is a fermented product used as a food supplement to promote blood circulation and lower blood cholesterol levels in eastern asia. red yeast rice lowers cholesterol in physicians - a double blind, placebo controlled randomized trial. in recent years, red yeast rice (ryr) supplements have been marketed aggressively as a natural way to lower cholesterol; however, the large majority of commercially available products have not been studied according to current research standards. the effect of red yeast rice (monascus purpureus) in dyslipidemia and other disorders. powdered red yeast rice and plant stanols and sterols to lower cholesterol. we report on a case series of 18 patients with hypercholesterolemia despite therapeutic lifestyle change through diet and exercise who took a proprietary product combining red yeast rice and phytosterols as a powdered shake in an effort to improve their cholesterol indices. although monascus-fermented red mold rice performs cholesterol-lowering effects, blood pressure-lowing effects, and antioxidant effects, another metabolite, nephrotoxic and hepatotoxic citrinin, causes the concerns for safety.
Do products made from red mold rice have fewer side effects than cholesterol-lowering drugs called statins??? [SEP] 
Do air purifiers help relieve symptoms of allergic asthma? [SEP] 
Does platelet-rich plasma therapy (autologous blood therapy) reduce pain in osteoarthritis of the knee joint? [SEP] autologous platelet-rich plasma (prp) and other biologics administered in the affected joint are widely used as alternatives that are believed to alleviate symptoms. comparative efficacy of platelet-rich plasma injection vs ultrasound-guided hyaluronic acid injection in the rehabilitation of hip osteoarthritis: an observational study. intra-articular platelet-rich plasma (prp) injections have been the subject of extensive study in knee osteoarthritis (oa), yet their effectiveness in hip oa has not been explored. biologic ia therapies for knee oa including autologous blood-derived products like platelet-rich plasma (prp), bone marrow aspirate concentrate (bmac) and mesenchymal stromal cells (mscs) have become more commonly used. effects of platelet-rich plasma combined with physical therapy on il-1β, tgf-β1, and mmp-3 in patients with knee osteoarthritis. therefore, the aim of this study was to assess the intra-articular injection (iai) of autologous platelet-rich plasma (prp) combined with physical therapy (pt) in treating knee osteoarthritis. autologous protein solution (aps) and osteoarthritis of the knee: a scoping review of current clinical evidence. the serum fraction of platelet-rich fibrin (hyperacute serum) has been shown to improve cartilage cell proliferation in in vitro osteoarthritic knee joint models. efficiency of platelet-rich plasma therapy in knee osteoarthritis does not depend on level of cartilage damage. this study suggests that intraarticular injection of prp might improve osteoarthritis symptoms and reduces the pain in patients suffering from osteoarthritis of the knee joint independent from the level of cartilage damages quantified by the whole-organ mri scoring method worms.
Does platelet-rich plasma therapy (autologous blood therapy) reduce pain in osteoarthritis of the hip joint??? [SEP] comparative efficacy of platelet-rich plasma injection vs ultrasound-guided hyaluronic acid injection in the rehabilitation of hip osteoarthritis: an observational study. intra-articular platelet-rich plasma (prp) injections have been the subject of extensive study in knee osteoarthritis (oa), yet their effectiveness in hip oa has not been explored. to assess and evaluate the therapeutic effectiveness of autologous prp and hyaluronic acid (ha) in treating hip oa. intra-articular injections were administered to 150 patients with hip osteoarthritis, and the patients were divided into two groups: prp and ha. the evaluation of clinical outcomes was conducted using the harris hip score (hhs), western ontario and mcmaster universities osteoarthritis index (womac), and visual analogue scale (vas) at 3, 6, and 12 months. outcomes were compared using regression analysis, repeated measure anova, and pearson correlation test. the prp group showed greater improvements in all scores ( it has been demonstrated by the findings of this study that pain and joint discomfort may be decreased by the administration of prp injections, which may aid in the management of hip oa. however, there was no clinical difference between prp and ha treatments.
Can vitamin D supplements prevent colds, flu, colds, and other viral respiratory illnesses when there is no or only a mild deficiency of vitamin D? [SEP] 
Does DAILY administration of HIGH-dose atropine (0.5 - 1%) sustainably inhibit the progression of myopia in children? [SEP] 
Does MONTHLY administered HIGH-dose atropine (1%) sustainably inhibit the progression of myopia in children? [SEP] 
Is quarantining persons who have had contact with infected persons or who enter from high-risk areas an effective measure to reduce the number of COVID-19 infections and deaths? [SEP] psychological outcomes of depression after legally enforced quarantine during the covid-19 pandemic: a cross-sectional study. legally enforced quarantines during the covid-19 pandemic resulted in increased psychological distress, particularly among individuals with pre-existing mental health conditions. screening of asymptomatic covid-19 cases from the aspect of virus spread. we investigated the relationship between isolating asymptomatic covid-19 cases with close contacts by identifying and breaking the infection chain. preventing infections in a small number of high-transmission settings is therefore an attractive public health goal. given an immediate response to a known sars-cov-2 outbreak, alongside testing and social distancing measures, prophylactic efficacy and coverage greater than 65% could reduce the average number of infections by over 90%. however, prophylactic use can halve an individual's probability of being infected, and significantly reduce the probability of developing a severe infection. at a known potential superspreading event, early use of intranasal sprays can complement quarantining measures and significantly suppress a sars-cov-2 outbreak, even at suboptimal coverage. we found that early use of nose sprays can suppress a sars-cov-2 outbreak, even if not everybody is treated with the nose spray, as long as people are also tested and use social distancing if infected. infection prevention and control measures for emerging infectious disease: lessons learned from the first case of imported lassa fever in china.
Can therapy with EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing) alleviate the symptoms of people with post-traumatic stress disorder? [SEP] eye movement desensitization and reprocessing with and without dialectical behavior therapy for posttraumatic stress disorder and comorbid borderline personality disorder symptoms: a randomized controlled trial. this study therefore aimed to examine whether the concurrent application of eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) for ptsd and dialectical behavior therapy (dbt) for bpd yields better results than emdr alone. stand-alone emdr demonstrated safety and efficacy in alleviating ptsd and bpd symptoms, as well as enhancing quality of life. these findings support the use of emdr as a strong therapeutic option for patients with ptsd and comorbid bpd symptoms. the resource-based eye movement desensitization and reprocessing group intervention group traumatic episode protocol g-tep showed promising results in reducing posttraumatic stress disorder, depression, and anxiety. a widely used psychotherapeutic treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd) involves performing bilateral eye movement (em) during trauma memory retrieval. however, how this treatment-described as eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr)-alleviates trauma-related symptoms is unclear. prolonged exposure (pe), cognitive processing therapy (cpt) and eye movement desensitisation and reprocessing (emdr) are among the most common interventions offered to survivors to alleviate post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd) and other psychological impacts. the current study reports on the feasibility, safety, and efficacy of eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) for ptsd subsequent to a pontine stroke. after 3 sessions of emdr, the patient no longer met criteria for ptsd, and showed clinically significant reductions in depressive and generalized anxiety symptoms.
Does EMDR work similarly to exposure therapy, another well-studied form of psychotherapy for the symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder??? [SEP] 
Does going to the sauna several times a week prolong men's lives? [SEP] 
Does the additional offer of HIV self-testing cause more people to take an HIV test? [SEP] 
Does healing clay with the clay mineral smectite help when children have diarrhea? [SEP] 
Does a herbal combination preparation of rosemary, lovage, and centaury effectively relieve symptoms of uncomplicated cystitis? [SEP] 
Does taking Bacopa extract improve memory performance? [SEP] 
Do remedies containing the trifoliate fruit alleviate the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis ("rheumatism")? [SEP] 
Does regular consumption of chia seeds reduce body weight, blood sugar levels or cholesterol? [SEP] this study examined the associations of protein intake, diet quality, and diabetes-related metabolic indicators in korean adults. pre-diabetic men showed a decreasing trend in the elevated triglyceride risk with higher protein intake (q4: odds ratio [or], 0.697 [0.489-0.995];  these findings suggest that in korean adults without diabetes, maintaining an appropriate, balanced protein intake rather than simply increasing consumption may help manage the metabolic alterations associated with diabetes. cumulative exposure and patterns of the cholesterol-hdl-c-glucose index and risk of new-onset cardiometabolic multimorbidity: 9-year longitudinal evidence from charls. association between intake of different types of kimchi and dyslipidemia in korean adults: a prospective cohort study. although numerous studies have suggested that dietary factors are related to dyslipidemia, epidemiological studies examining the relationship between kimchi consumption and dyslipidemia in large populations remain limited. in this study, we aimed to evaluate the association between kimchi consumption and dyslipidemia. the association between kimchi consumption and dyslipidemia, along with its four key indicators, was evaluated using the cox proportional hazards analysis. in women, the risk of hypo-high-density lipoprotein (hypo-hdl) cholesterolemia was reduced in the group that consumed the most baechu kimchi [≥3 servings/day; hazard ratio (hr): 0.778; 95% confidence interval (ci): 0.671-0.981]. compared with the group that consumed the least amount of baechu kimchi, the group that consumed 1-2 servings/day of baechu kimchi showed a decreased risk of hypercholesterolemia in men (hr: 0.614; 95% ci: 0.398-0.948) and hypo-hdl-cholesterolemia in women (hr: 0.797; 95% ci: 0.649-0.979). these findings highlight the importance of moderate kimchi intake in the prevention and management of cholesterol level.
Do heat patches containing capsaicin help with neck pain??? [SEP] 
Do heat patches help with lower back pain? [SEP] 
Does ginger help with period pain? [SEP] effect of varash oil to decrease menstrual pain in primary dysmenorrhea of senior high school student at palu city. menstrual pain is a common gynecological symptom at women on or near their menstrual period. this research aims to know the effect of ginger oil used on decreasing menstrual pain scale. participants were grouping cluster randomly into group a which applied 5ml ginger oil five days before until the second day of the first menstrual period, and group b that given the same treatment in the next period. the main menstrual pain scale were 6.87 ± 1.817 and 6.46±1.362 decreased to 3.48±1.928 and 4.24±2.010 after treatment (p=0.0001). the use of ginger oil several days before menstruation can reduce menstrual pain scale on students with primary dysmenorrhea; therefore, its use can be recommended to prevent the pain. the intervention consisted of three massage sessions with ginger and coconut oil over a 1-week period. [dysmenorrhea: a study of affected factors and approaches to relief among female students at a college in southern taiwan]. traditional chinese medicine pattern identifications related significantly to dysmenorrhea frequency perception. using shenghua decoction, siwu and pig blood decoction, angelica drink, ginger, ziziphus jujube, brown sugar tea, and analgesics all related significantly to dysmenorrhea relief efficacy.
Can pain from osteoarthritis (joint wear) be relieved by arnica ointment or arnica gel? [SEP] myth versus reality: a review of social media claims and scientific evidence for arnica montana in postinjectable procedures. to evaluate the validity of social media claims regarding arnica's therapeutic benefits, focusing on aesthetic injectable procedures. the aim of this study was to test the effect of electrical stimulation in association with topical arnica montana gel on organisational changes in the dermis during tissue repair. clinical trials, potential mechanisms, and adverse effects of arnica as an adjunct medication for pain management. arnica has traditionally been used in treating numerous medical conditions, including inflammation and pain. this review aims to summarize the results of studies testing arnica products for pain management under different conditions, including post-operation, arthritis, low back pain, and other types of musculoskeletal pain. based on data from clinical trials, arnica extract or gel/cream containing arnica extract shows promising effects for pain relief. these medical benefits of arnica may be attributed to its chemical components, with demonstrated anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, anti-microbial, and other biological activities. in conclusion, arnica could be an adjunct therapeutical approach for acute and chronic pain management. a clinical trial with brazilian arnica (solidago chilensis meyen) glycolic extract in the treatment of tendonitis of flexor and extensor tendons of wrist and hand.
Can sore muscles be relieved by arnica ointment or arnica gel? [SEP] arnica montana is widely used by physicians and promoted on social media, although its efficacy in aesthetic medicine remains uncertain. the aim of this study was to test the effect of electrical stimulation in association with topical arnica montana gel on organisational changes in the dermis during tissue repair. clinical trials, potential mechanisms, and adverse effects of arnica as an adjunct medication for pain management. arnica has traditionally been used in treating numerous medical conditions, including inflammation and pain. this review aims to summarize the results of studies testing arnica products for pain management under different conditions, including post-operation, arthritis, low back pain, and other types of musculoskeletal pain. based on data from clinical trials, arnica extract or gel/cream containing arnica extract shows promising effects for pain relief. these medical benefits of arnica may be attributed to its chemical components, with demonstrated anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, anti-microbial, and other biological activities. in conclusion, arnica could be an adjunct therapeutical approach for acute and chronic pain management. extracts of arnica spp. a clinical trial with brazilian arnica (solidago chilensis meyen) glycolic extract in the treatment of tendonitis of flexor and extensor tendons of wrist and hand.
It is not always possible to reduce elevated cholesterol levels to a healthy level with tablets and thus minimize the risk of heart attack or stroke. Does this succeed through additional injections with PCSK9 antibodies? [SEP] 
Do vaginal suppositories containing the active ingredient imiquimod cause precancerous stages of cervical cancer to recede or disappear? [SEP] a case report of an intradural extramedullary tumor, which was treated with steroid and clinically suspected as neural sarcoidosis. we report a rare case that was clinically diagnosed as an intradural extramedullary tumor of sarcoidosis, which was treated with oral steroid medication. mri showed an intradural extramedullary tumor at the level from th 4 to 5. since resection of intradural tumors carries a high risk of complications, the mass was clinically suspected as sarcoidosis and treatment of the tumor with steroid started. after treatment, the pain and muscle weakness diminished soon, and 2 months later, the tumor clearly disappeared. if intradural extramedullary sarcoidosis was diagnosed before surgery, patients do not need surgery. these patterns underpin hypotheses on cancer defences, conservation strategies and the evolution of multicellularity, so their robustness is critical. the positive link between germline mutation rate and cancer mortality also disappeared. finally, the endotheliochorial placentation-mortality association vanished after accounting for confounders. mean iol decentration was 0.401 ± 0.240 mm at baseline and 0.397 ± 0.234 mm at 6 months (mean change - 0.004 mm; p = 0.457).
Does frequent consumption of potatoes increase the risk of dying from cancer? [SEP] 
Can cancer be detected by dark field analysis (dark field microscopy) of the blood? [SEP] although levels of the circulating ovarian cancer marker (ca125) can distinguish ovarian masses that are likely to be malignant and correlate with severity of disease, serum ca125 has not proved useful in general population screening. we present evidence that the presence of muc16 can be locally visualized and imaged on the surface of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmcs) in ovarian cancer via a novel "digital" cytometry technique that incorporates: (i) oc125 monoclonal antibody-conjugated gold nanoparticles as optical nanoprobes, (ii) a high contrast dark-field microscopy system to detect pbmc-bound gold nanoparticles, and (iii) a computational algorithm for automatic counting of these nanoparticles to estimate the quantity of surface-bound muc16. automatic detection of circulating tumor cells in darkfield microscopic images of unstained blood using boosting techniques. in this article, we present a new method that could be used for the automatic detection of ctc in blood, based on the microscopic appearance of unstained cells. a dataset of 263 dark field microscopy images was constructed and used for our tests, containing blood spiked with three different types of tumor cells. noise reduction method for quantifying nanoparticle light scattering in low magnification dark-field microscope far-field images. dark-field microscope (dfm) image analysis approaches used to quantify nanoparticles require high-magnification near-field (hn) images that are labor intensive due to a requirement for manual image selection and focal adjustments needed when identifying and capturing new regions of interest. we have used this approach to develop a "dark scatter master" (dsm) algorithm for the popular nih image analysis program imagej, which can be readily adapted for use with automated high-throughput assay analyses. quantification of cancer biomarkers in serum using scattering-based quantitative single particle intensity measurement with a dark-field microscope. by measuring the intensity change of the particles with a dark-field microscope (dfm), the amount of target protein could be accurately quantified.
Can taking chlorophyll affect the odor of urine in catheter wearers or stool in people with an artificial bowel outlet? [SEP] 
Is the risk of bacterial or fungal infection comparable when using menstrual cups or pads? [SEP] menstrual characteristics and school absenteeism among adolescent school girls of aligarh-a cross-sectional study. the stigma associated with menstruation, difficulties due to menstrual disorders, and period poverty can often lead to school absenteeism and school dropout among girls. despite these challenges, a majority of students (84.1%) affirmed not taking leave during menstruation. among those who did, the reasons included a lack of facilities for changing pads, insufficient disposal systems for pads, and dysmenorrhea. this highlights the importance of improving school facilities to manage menstruation with dignity. homemade ultrasound stand-off gel pads: a multi-parameter performance study. stand-off gel pads made of natural ingredients may provide a low-cost option in clinical ultrasound imaging. this study investigated the performance and safety of homemade pads. there was a significant difference in compressive force resistance between the stand-off gel pads ( a cucumber stand-off gel pad is a practical alternative for clinical use owing to its structural integrity, retained moisture and low microbial contamination. the image quality produced using the pad was comparable with the conventional glove-filled-with-water stand-off method.
Are ultrasound examinations during pregnancy safe for the health of the child? [SEP] asymmetric neonatal spasms as an early sign of brain malformation potentially caused by regular light alcohol consumption during the first 22 weeks of pregnancy, a clinical case report. preexisting brain damage has been demonstrated in 60% to 90% of the cases reflecting pre-, peri-, or postnatal brain injury that may usually be determined by history and clinical neurologic examination. prenatal alcohol exposure can permanently damage the brain, affecting important structures, such as the cerebellum, corpus callosum as well as specific cell populations in many other regions of the brain. no one knows what a "safe" amount of alcohol consumption during pregnancy may be[3]. material and methods: all patient data were collected from the nicu and newborn pathology department of lviv city children's clinical hospital health record department, and included the hospital and clinic records by the staff neurologist, neurophysiologist, and pediatrician, as well as eeg records in the postneonatal period. the mother was interviewed to clarify the pregnancy course data. the mother's consent was obtained for publication. results: asymmetric spasms, which were recognized as seizures on the 4th day of the child's life while recording video eeg, urged the physicians towards further diagnostic investigations. conclusions: spasms in the form of seizures are rarely reported in the neonatal period. their recognition has to lead to urgent brain imaging study to look for the underlying cause and to implement timely, appropriate corrections in the treatment strategy.
Are Bach flower remedies effective in helping with test anxiety? [SEP] 
Does taking proton pump inhibitors (PPI) increase the risk of bone fractures? [SEP] the association between proton pump inhibitors and hyperparathyroidism: a potential mechanism for increased fracture-results of a large observational cohort study. proton pump inhibitors (ppis) are associated with increased risk of osteoporotic fracture; however, the mechanism is unclear. proton pump inhibitors (ppis) are associated with increased risk of osteoporotic fracture. proton pump inhibitors (ppis) are among the most frequently prescribed medications and may impair bone quality and quantity. the clinical characteristics of fractures in pediatric patients exposed to proton pump inhibitors. there are increasing concerns regarding proton pump inhibitor (ppi) use and the risk of fractures in adults. this study suggests an increased risk of fracture among pediatric patients taking ppi. patients on psychotropic drugs (hypnotics, benzodiazepines and antidepressants [selective serotonin- and norepinephrine-reuptake inhibitors: ssris and snris]) and proton pump inhibitors (ppis) may be at a higher risk of fractures. proton pump inhibitors and fracture risk: a review of current evidence and mechanisms involved. proton pump inhibitors therapy and risk of bone diseases: an update meta-analysis.
Can hyposensitization by injections with allergy-causing pollen components help with hay fever? [SEP] 
Can hyposensitization by means of drops or tablets administered under the tongue help with hay fever? [SEP] patient initiation and persistence with allergen immunotherapy. a two-year course of specific immunotherapy or of continuous antihistamine treatment reverse eosinophilic inflammation in severe persistent allergic rhinitis. aim of the study was to evaluate the effect of a 2-year course of subcutaneous specific immunotherapy or continuous oral antihistamine treatment on the eosinophilic inflammation in nasal secretions of patients with severe persistent allergic rhinitis caused by house dust-mites. after informed consent, 31 rhinitis patients, sensitive to dust-mite antigens, were enrolled: 12 were randomly assigned to specific immunotherapy (group a), 11 to continuous oral antihistamine (cetirizine) treatment (group b), and 8 to an oral antihistamine (cetirizine) on demand (group c). in the 2-year period studied, specific subcutaneous immunotherapy and continuous oral antihistamine treatment were found to be effective in reducing eosinophilic infiltration and adhesion molecule expression in the nasal mucosa of patients with persistent allergic rhinitis. furthermore, immunotherapy was more effective in controlling epithelial disruption while antihistamines appeared to be more active in controlling nasal inflammation. efficacy of sublingual immunotherapy in children with asthma and rhinitis: a double-blind, placebo-controlled study. to evaluate the efficacy of specific sublingual immunotherapy (slit), we enrolled 15 children with asthma and rhinitis (7 girls, 8 boys, mean +/- sd age of 11.7 +/- 3.3) allergic to house dust mite (hdm) into a double-blind, placebo-controlled study. at the end of follow-up, mean daily doses of intranasal steroids needed for control of rhinitis symptoms decreased significantly in the slit group (p = 0.04). results of this study suggests that slit may be a useful alternative or additional therapy in the treatment of children with asthma/rhinitis due to hdm.
Are kinesiotapes effective for chronic non-specific lower back pain ("low back pain")? [SEP] 
Does regular consumption of red meat or processed meat products increase the risk of colorectal cancer? [SEP] a comprehensive evaluation of epidemiological evidence on processed meat intake in relation to cancer, cardiovascular, metabolic diseases and all-cause mortality: an umbrella review. conversely, elevated risks were observed with frequent red meat (≥ 4 times/week, hr = 1.20), non-oily fish (≥ twice/week, hr = 1.45), refined grains (≥ 3 bowls or slices/week, hr = 1.14), and habitual salt addition (hr = 1.21). dietary intake of processed meats with fermented foods: effects on carcinoembryonic antigen, hematological parameters, and gut microbiota of adult and elderly mouse models. this study analyzed the effects of the dietary intake of processed meat products (ham, sausage, and bacon) with fermented foods (kimchi, soybean paste and red pepper paste) on colorectal cancer (crc) risk, hematological parameters, and gut microbiota of adult and elderly institute of cancer research (icr) mice. beyond the plate: unveiling the association between meat consumption and colorectal cancer risk. the consumption of meat, particularly processed and red meat, is believed to increase the risk of colorectal cancer (crc). this study aims to conduct a meta-analysis to clarify the association between the consumption of red meat, processed meat, and white meat with the risk of crc, thereby providing a scientific foundation for crc prevention. in cohort studies, the associations observed were as follows: red meat: or = 1.11 (95% ci: 1.02-1.20), processed meat: or = 1.17 (95% ci: 1.09-1.25), and white meat: or = 0.95 (95% ci: 0.72-1.19). in case-control studies, the associations were as follows: red meat: or = 1.12 (95% ci: 1.03-1.20), processed meat: or = 1.12 (95% ci: 1.00-1.23), and white meat: or = 0.95 (95% ci: 0.85-1.24). the consumption of red and processed meat demonstrated a statistically significant positive correlation with an elevated risk of crc; however, the consumption of white meat did not exhibit such an association.
Does stool transplantation help with ulcerative colitis? [SEP] how fecal transplantation affect quality of life in people with chronic pouchitis some patients with ulcerative colitis need surgery in which the colon is removed, and a new internal pouch is created to help store stool. one therapy, many targets: redefining ulcerative colitis treatment through fecal microbiota transplantation. comparative effectiveness and safety of fecal microbiota transplantation in ulcerative colitis: an updated systematic review and meta-analysis. fecal microbiota transplantation (fmt) is a potential therapy for ulcerative colitis (uc). gut microbiota features in relation to fecal microbiota transplantation outcome in ulcerative colitis: a systematic review and meta-analysis. fecal microbiota transplantation (fmt) can induce remission in patients with ulcerative colitis, yet its efficacy needs improvement. faecal microbiota transplantation (fmt) is an established therapy for recurrent c. difficile infection, and recent studies have reported encouraging results of fmt in patients with ulcerative colitis. transfer of frozen encapsulated multi-donor stool filtrate for active ulcerative colitis (fresco): study protocol for a prospective, multicenter, double-blind, randomized, controlled trial. fecal microbiota transplantation for ulcerative colitis: the optimum timing and gut microbiota as predictors for long-term clinical outcomes. the previous researches aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of fecal microbiota transplantation (fmt) for ulcerative colitis (uc) in a short-term observation.
Does HPV vaccination reduce the risk of cervical cancer in girls? [SEP] since 2019, chile has been promoting molecular-based hpv screening to reduce cervical cancer incidence and mortality. nearly all cases of cervical cancer are attributable to persistent human papillomavirus (hpv), a vaccine-preventable sexually transmitted infection. although hpv is usually harmless, long-lasting infections are responsible for nearly 13,500 projected new cases of cervical cancer in 2026 in the united states, according to the american cancer society's annual cancer statistics report. beyond conventional therapies: immunotherapeutic strategies targeting hpv-associated cervical cancer. cervical cancer continues to represent a significant global health challenge, primarily due to persistent infection with high-risk human papillomavirus (hpv) types. while prophylactic hpv vaccines have substantially reduced infection rates, their inability to address established infections or hpv-driven malignancies highlights a critical therapeutic gap. cervical cancer is a common disease in women and is mainly caused by a long-term infection with a virus called human papillomavirus (hpv). vaccines can help prevent hpv infection, but they do not work for people who are already infected or who have developed cancer. in cervical cancer, population-level human papillomavirus (hpv) vaccination has dramatically reduced incidence, while the lacc and shape trials prompted a return to open and less radical surgery, respectively. the human papillomavirus (hpv) vaccine helps significantly reduce the incidence of cervical cancer.
Is stool transplantation effective against recurrent Clostridium difficile infections ? [SEP] analysis of gut microbiota in super donors for fecal microbiota transplantation and isolated gut commensal bacteria of inhibition against clostridioides difficile. fecal microbiota transplantation (fmt) is increasingly recognized as an alternative to antibiotics for treating recurrent clostridioides difficile infection. fecal microbiota transplantation promotes type 2 mucosal immune responses with colonic epithelium proliferation in patients with recurrent clostridioides difficile. backgroundfecal microbiota transplantation (fmt) is the most effective therapy for recurrent clostridioides difficile infection (rcdi), yet its mechanism of action remains poorly understood.methodswe report the results of a clinical trial of patients undergoing fmt therapy for rcdi (n = 16), which analyzed colon biopsies, plasma, pbmcs, and stool at the time of fmt and 2-month follow-up. donor screening for fecal microbiota transplantation with a direct stool testing-based strategy: a prospective cohort study. fecal microbiota transplantation (fmt) is effective against recurrent clostridioides difficile infection (rcdi), but its safety is jeopardized by the potential transmission of pathogens, so international guidelines recommend either a quarantine or a direct stool testing. treatment of recurrent clostridioides difficile infections with faecal microbiota transplantation: peri-procedural methods in a consecutive case series. faecal microbiota transplantation (fmt) has high efficacy against recurrent clostridioides difficile infection (cdi). faecal microbiota transplantation (fmt) is the transfer of the microbiota from healthy screened stool donors into the gut of affected patients, and is a well-established and highly effective treatment for recurrent clostridioides difficile infection. fecal microbiota transplantation (fmt) is highly effective against recurrent clostridioides difficile infection and is considered a promising treatment for other microbiome-related disorders, but a comprehensive understanding of microbial engraftment dynamics is lacking, which prevents informed applications of this therapeutic approach.
Is Intermittent Fasting suitable for reducing excess weight as well as a conventional low calorie diet? [SEP] 
Is the risk for the brain inflammation SSPE as a consequence of measles disease greater than long assumed? That is, out of every 100,000 people infected with measles, does more than one person develop SSPE (subacute sclerosing panencephalitis) later in life? [SEP] 
Can acupuncture for labor induction trigger the onset of labor? [SEP] massage, reflexology and other manual methods for pain management in labour. many women would like to avoid pharmacological or invasive methods of pain management in labour, and this may contribute towards the popularity of complementary methods of pain management. this review examined the evidence currently available on manual methods, including massage and reflexology, for pain management in labour. to assess the effect, safety and acceptability of massage, reflexology and other manual methods to manage pain in labour. we found no trials examining the effectiveness of reflexology.massagewe found low-quality evidence that massage provided a greater reduction in pain intensity (measured using self-reported pain scales) than usual care during the first stage of labour (standardised mean difference (smd) -0.81, 95% confidence interval (ci) -1.06 to -0.56, six trials, 362 women). two trials reported on pain intensity during the second and third stages of labour, and there was evidence of a reduction in pain scores in favour of massage (smd -0.98, 95% ci -2.23 to 0.26, 124 women; and smd -1.03, 95% ci -2.17 to 0.11, 122 women). one trial reported less anxiety during the first stage of labour for women receiving massage (md -16.27, 95% ci -27.03 to -5.51, 60 women). very low-quality evidence showed reduced length of labour (minutes) in the warm-pack group (md -66.15, 95% ci -91.83 to -40.47; two trials; 128 women).thermal manual methodsone trial evaluated thermal manual methods versus usual care and found very low-quality evidence of reduced pain intensity during the first phase of labour for women receiving thermal methods (md -1.44, 95% ci -2.24 to -0.65, one trial, 96 women). results were similar for cold packs versus usual care, and intermittent hot and cold packs versus usual care, for pain intensity, length of labour and assisted vaginal birth.music one trial that compared manual methods with music found very low-quality evidence of reduced pain intensity during labour in the massage group (rr 0.40, 95% ci 0.18 to 0.89, 101 women). massage, warm pack and thermal manual methods may have a role in reducing pain, reducing length of labour and improving women's sense of control and emotional experience of labour, although the quality of evidence varies from low to very low and few trials reported on the key grade outcomes.
Can switching to a higher fiber diet prevent colorectal cancer? [SEP] weight loss with exercise improves muscle architecture and progenitor cell populations compared with weight loss alone in mice with preneoplastic colorectal lesions. weight loss and exercise reduce colorectal cancer (crc) risk in persons with obesity. whether weight loss and exercise effect myofiber characteristics and muscle stem/progenitor cell populations in mice with preneoplastic colorectal lesions, a model of crc risk, is unknown. to address this gap, male c57bl/6j mice were fed a high-fat diet (hfd) to induce obesity or a control (con) diet prior to azoxymethane injection to induce preneoplastic colorectal lesions. there were more smaller-sized fibres in hfd-ex ( a switch from canonical to noncanonical wnt signaling mediates drug resistance in colon cancer cells. butyrate, a fermentation product of fiber in the colon, acts as a histone deacetylase inhibitor (hdaci) and induces apoptosis in colon cancer (cc) cells in vitro. we have reported that the apoptotic effects of butyrate are dependent upon the hyperactivation of the wnt/beta-catenin pathway. finally, the concept of simultaneously inducing canonical wnt activity and suppressing akt signaling was translated into a combination of diet-derived agents. diet-derived pakt inhibitors (caffeic acid phethyl ester, sulforaphane, dilallyl trisulfide) suppressed the butyrate-induced levels of pakt, and increased the apoptotic effects of butyrate in both drug-sensitive and drug-resistant cc cells.our findings can be translated into (a) cc therapy employing combinations of synthetic hdacis and inhibitors of pakt, as well as (b) cc prevention based upon diets that result in sufficient amounts of butyrate and pakt inhibitors.
Can perineal massage during pregnancy help prevent birth injury in first-time mothers? [SEP] 
Does flu vaccination reduce the likelihood of getting the flu (influenza)? [SEP] flu vaccines reduce flu infections and flu-related deaths, but many people still choose not to get vaccinated. vaccination against the flu is widely recognized as a crucial preventive measure to reduce morbidity and mortality associated with the virus. the likelihood of getting the flu vaccines was greater among men (aor: 1.38, p=0.027), and obesity was associated with lower flu vaccine uptake (aor: 0.29, p=0.034). having contact with people with flu, having had flu in the past, and experiencing severe flu complications (aor: 4.71, p=0.029; aor: 0.13, p=0.006; and aor: 0.29, p=0.033, respectively) were significantly associated with the flu vaccine uptake among our study participants. perceived potential risks of the flu vaccine were also associated with taking the flu vaccine (aor: 0.213, p=0.042). there was a significant association between seeing an advertisement for the flu vaccine and the likelihood of taking the vaccine (aor: 5.488, p=0.042). although annual influenza vaccination is an effective way to prevent influenza, influenza vaccination rates among chinese university students are still low due to vaccine hesitancy. influenza vaccination can prevent influenza and potentially serious influenza-related complications. although the single best way to prevent influenza is annual vaccination, everyday preventive actions, including good hygiene, health, dietary, and social habits, might help, too. though vaccination is the most important tool available to prevent influenza, the addition of preventive behaviors might play an effective role in reducing or slowing transmission of influenza and complement prevention efforts.
Can therapy with the radioactive gas radon noticeably alleviate pain in rheumatism-related joint inflammation (rheumatoid arthritis)? [SEP] 
Does frankincense help with painful joint wear (osteoarthritis)? [SEP] 
Does yoga reduce the impairment in everyday life caused by persistent (chronic) back pain? [SEP] 
Does yoga alleviate the severity of persistent back pain??? [SEP] back pain in ophthalmology: national survey of indian ophthalmologists. the aim is to assess the prevalence, severity, and associations of back pain among indian ophthalmologists. self-reported prevalence of back pain was 70.5%. fully 49% of respondents had low back pain, followed by neck pain (33%) and upper extremity symptoms (16%). age <50 years (odds ratio [or] = 2.4485), female gender (or = 2.0265), long working hours in opd (or = 1.6524), and performing retinal lasers and indirect ophthalmoscopy (or = 3.3251) showed positive association with back pain. the intolerable back pain was noted in <7% of the respondents. around 398 (61%) respondents felt that their back pain was exacerbated while doing work and 86.6% felt that up to 5 h/week was lost due to persistent backache. yoga and some form of exercise (74.3%) was practised to alleviate back pain. awkward posture and prolonged working hours are responsible for developing back pain among ophthalmologists. performing yoga and regular exercises, modifications in instrumentation and creating a larger workforce of eye care practitioners are needed to prevent ophthalmologists from developing back pain.
Can a height-adjustable desk reduce sitting time in the office? [SEP] reducing office workers' sitting time: rationale and study design for the stand up victoria cluster randomized trial. excessive time spent in sedentary behaviours (sitting or lying with low energy expenditure) is associated with an increased risk for type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease and some cancers. desk-based office workers typically accumulate high amounts of daily sitting time, often in prolonged unbroken bouts. the stand up victoria study aims to determine whether a 3-month multi-component intervention in the office setting reduces workplace sitting, particularly prolonged, unbroken sitting time, and results in improvements in cardio-metabolic biomarkers and work-related outcomes, compared to usual practice. work units from one organisation (department of human services, australian government) will be allocated to either the multi-component intervention (organisational, environmental [height-adjustable workstations], and individual behavioural strategies) or to a usual practice control group. at each assessment (0- [baseline], 3- [post intervention], and 12-months [follow-up]), objective measurement via the activpal3 activity monitor will be used to assess workplace: sitting time (primary outcome); prolonged sitting time (sitting time accrued in bouts of ≥30 minutes); standing time; sit-to-stand transitions; and, moving time. additional outcomes assessed will include: non-workplace activity; cardio-metabolic biomarkers and health indicators (including fasting glucose, lipids and insulin; anthropometric measures; blood pressure; and, musculoskeletal symptoms); and, work-related outcomes (presenteeism, absenteeism, productivity, work performance). incremental cost-effectiveness and identification of both workplace and individual-level mediators and moderators of change will also be evaluated. stand up victoria will be the first cluster-rct to evaluate the effectiveness of a multi-component intervention aimed at reducing prolonged workplace sitting in office workers. health- and work-related benefits, as well as the cost-effectiveness of the intervention, will help to inform future occupational practice.
Does cinnamon lower blood sugar levels in diabetes? [SEP] effect of boiled and macerated cinnamon sticks and powder on diabetic and biochemical profile in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. aim: we examined possible impact of cinnamon on blood glucose and some biochemical parameters among type 2 diabetic patients treated with cinnamon in najaf. results: our study support previous ones regarding the beneficial effect of cinnamon in lowering blood glucose levels in diabetic patients. conclusions: fasting blood glucose, urine glucose and urine ketones were shown to be reduced by the treatment with cinnamon, with soaking more than boiling and branches more than powder. effect of cinnamon oil ( chronic systemic disease known as diabetes mellitus is defined by elevated blood glucose levels and problems with fat, carbohydrate, and protein metabolism. the efficacy and safety of berberine in combination with cinnamon supplementation in patients with type 2 diabetes: a randomized clinical trial. twelve weeks of berberine plus cinnamon consumption reduced blood fbs, hba1c and ldl-c concentration in patients with diabetes. cinnamon has been studied as a possible way to control blood glucose and serum cholesterol levels. (1) background: the effect of cinnamon on the regulation of glycolipid levels in type 2 diabetic patients is still controversial, and there is a lack of research on the dose-response relationship between cinnamon and glycolipid indicators in type 2 diabetic patients. (3) results: we identified that a cinnamon intervention was effective in controlling triglyceride (tg) levels (mean difference = -7.31; 95%ci: -12.37, -2.25,
Does sitting for long periods shorten the lifespan? [SEP] 
Does mammography screening reduce the risk of dying from breast cancer in certain age groups? [SEP] body mass index and breast cancer survival in relation to the introduction of mammographic screening. mammographic screening reduces mortality in breast cancer. obesity has been associated with worse survival following breast cancer diagnosis. this study investigates bmi in relation to breast cancer mortality, and if this association is affected by invitation to mammographic screening. in 1976, a randomised mammographic screening trial, inviting 50% of all women aged 45-69 years (n=42 283), was set up in malmö, sweden. bmi in relation to breast cancer mortality was examined separately in women invited or not invited to screening in the trial. obese women (bmi> or =30) not invited to mammographic screening had a higher adjusted rr of dying of breast cancer as compared to normal weight women (2.08:1.13-3.81) in the 10-year follow-up. in women invited to screening there was no association between bmi and breast cancer mortality. in the historical control group, mortality was increased in overweight women (bmi: 25-30), rr=1.27:0.99-1.62, and obese women, rr=1.32:0.94-1.84, but these associations totally disappeared in the multivariate analysis, following adjustment for tumour size and stage. overweight and obese women may be a group that profit from mammographic screening to more than normal weight women.
Does the intake of omega-3 fatty acids improve the clinical picture in multiple sclerosis (MS) or does this inhibit progression of the disease? [SEP] rewiring mtor signaling in alzheimer's disease: emerging mtor modulators beyond oncology. mtor activity significantly contributes to ad hallmarks, including amyloid-beta production, tau hyperphosphorylation, and altered metabolism and autophagy through mtor-mediated signaling and downstream targets such as bace-1, gsk-3β, and ache. consequently, mtor-modulating compounds, demonstrating promising results in oncology, present a viable strategy to potentially halt or reverse ad progression. this review synthesizes the extensive body of preclinical evidence supporting the neuroprotective and neuroregenerative potential of fucoidan. its therapeutic efficacy relies on potent anti-inflammatory activity through the modulation of glial cell activation, significant antioxidant effects by neutralizing reactive oxygen species and reinforcing endogenous defenses, and direct anti-apoptotic actions that inhibit programmed cell death. furthermore, this review highlights the pivotal and emerging role of the microbiota-gut-brain axis as a key regulator of the neuroprotective effects of fucoidan, whereby its prebiotic activity in the gut instigates systemic benefits that extend to the central nervous system. fibroblast- and macrophage-derived thrombospondin-1 orchestrates the fibroinflammatory niche in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis-induced fibrosis. high mobility group motif proteins' role in fibrosis, inflammation, and vascular injury in systemic sclerosis. systemic sclerosis (ssc) is an idiopathic systemic autoimmune disease characterized by progressive cutaneous and systemic fibrosis, severe vasculopathy, and multiple humoral and cellular immunological alterations. this convergent role of hmg proteins across various aspects of ssc pathogenesis, including immune dysregulation, vasculopathy, and fibrosis, makes them among the most attractive novel regulators and a desirable therapeutic target for ssc.
Can Botox injections prevent migraine attacks? [SEP] chronic migraine: a narrative review on the use of botulinum toxin with clinical indications and future directions. botulinum toxins for the prevention of migraine in adults. to assess the effects of botulinum toxins versus placebo or active treatment for the prevention or reduction in frequency of chronic or episodic migraine in adults. randomised, double-blind, controlled trials of botulinum toxin (any sero-type) injections into the head and neck for prophylaxis of chronic or episodic migraine in adults. [efficacy of different doses of botox in treatment of chronic migraine]. to compare the efficacy of botox used in doses of 155 u and 195 u for preventive treatment of chronic migraine (cm). experience with onabotulinumtoxina (botox) in chronic refractory migraine: focus on severe attacks. predicting migraine responsiveness to botulinum toxin type a injections. botulinum toxin as preventive treatment for migraine: a randomized double-blind study. to determine if botulinum toxin type a (bont-a) injections can reduce the frequency and severity of migraines.
Does taking probiotics facilitate weight loss to any significant degree? [SEP] 
Does the full moon have a negative effect on sleep duration? [SEP] 
For knee osteoarthritis, does rubbing DMSO into the knee bring less pain and more mobility than rubbing a placebo? [SEP] 
Does taking vitamin D improve symptoms in the most common form of psoriasis? [SEP] 
Does taking fish oil with omega-3 fatty acids improve the symptoms of various forms of psoriasis more than a placebo??? [SEP] 
Does following a Mediterranean diet decrease the likelihood of cardiovascular disease in people at high risk? [SEP] incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events decreases with greater adherence to both mediterranean and low-fat dietary patterns in secondary prevention patients: a randomized controlled trial. we assessed whether the degree of dietary adherence, measured by the 14-point mediterranean diet adherence screener (medas) and a 9-point low-fat diet adherence questionnaire, influenced the incidence of major cardiovascular events (mace) in each diet and whether any diet proved superior when excluding the least adherent patients. high adherence to either the mediterranean or the low-fat diet was associated with significant reductions in cardiovascular risk compared to the lowest adherence categories within each group. prevented fractions of cardiovascular disease cases, by long-term adherence to the mediterranean diet; the attica study (2002-2022). it was found that approximately 30 % of cvd, t2dm, hypertension and hypercholesterolemia cases were prevented due to the high long-term adherence to the mediterranean diet. mediterranean diet is a predictor of progression of subclinical atherosclerosis in a mediterranean population: the ilervas prospective cohort study. the mediterranean diet (mdiet) is known for its cardiovascular benefits, but the combined influence of both mdiet adherence and physical activity (pa) on sad progression has not been previously documented. adherence to the mediterranean diet and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy biomarkers in older individuals at high cardiovascular disease risk: cross-sectional and longitudinal analyses. the mediterranean diet (meddiet) has been related to a decreased risk of cardiovascular disease (cvd) and diabetes. one-year changes in fruit and vegetable variety intake and cardiometabolic risk factors changes in a middle-aged mediterranean population at high cardiovascular risk.
Does the probability of dying from cardiovascular disease decrease in people who have already had a heart attack? [SEP] 
Are there differences in hair removal effectiveness between IPL and diode laser? [SEP] efficacy and safety of intense pulsed light compared to diode laser for hair removal: a randomized controlled trial. to compare the efficacy and safety of intense pulsed light (ipl) versus diode laser (dl) for female axillary hair removal in a randomized split-body trial. efficacy of intense pulsed light <em>vs.</em> triple wavelength diode laser in hair reduction. to compare the effectiveness of triple wavelength diode laser (twdl; 755 nm, 808 nm, and 1,064 nm) versus intense pulsed light (ipl; 400-1,200 nm) for hair reduction, measured by percentage reduction in hair growth after 4 months of treatment, and to evaluate the side effect profile of both modalities in the pakistani population. to determine superiority in terms of effectiveness and tolerability, we conducted a systematic review of literature on different types of in-office laser and ipl for hair removal in subjects with fitzpatrick skin types iii-vi. in terms of hair count reduction, pooled effect estimates for long-pulsed nd:yag laser [or: 0.26, 95% ci (0.1, 0.78)] and diode laser [standardized mean difference (smd): -0.11, 95% ci (-0.62, 0.39)] were not statistically significant from those of ipl; in contrast, alexandrite laser was found to be superior to ipl in reducing hair count [smd: -1.7, 95% ci (-2.6, -0.78)]. in conclusion, this systematic review suggests that treatment outcomes for different in-office laser devices and ipl in subjects with skin type iii-vi are broadly similar; nevertheless, we observed a trend towards greater hair reduction following laser therapy compared with ipl. here we evaluate and compare the efficacy, treatment time, comfort and safety of the low fluence multiple pass diode laser with high fluence single pass ipl for permanent hair reduction in type iii to iv asian patients. there was no statistically significant difference in hair reduction and treatment time between the laser (76.85%, 21.39 min) and the ipl (74.53%, 22.17 min) (p > 0.05). a series of high fluence single pass ipl and low fluence multiple pass diode laser treatments were performed with similar efficacy, speed and safety for permanent hair reduction.
Does carbonic acid cause cancer? [SEP] tumor acidosis is a hallmark of cancer that leads to abrogation of t cell function and cancer progression. we show that acidity alters t cell proliferation, migration and effector functions as well as transcriptional programming using in vitro culture techniques and rna sequencing. immunohistochemically, all tumors showed diffuse strong carbonic anhydrase ix positivity and moderate or weak cytokeratin 7 positivity. cancer involves uncontrolled cell growth, leading to tumor formation, and remains a major cause of mortality worldwide. colorectal cancer (crc) arises from abnormal proliferation of colon glandular epithelial cells. we assessed the cytotoxic and molecular effects of lithium carbonate (li carbonic anhydrase 12 as a novel prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for high-risk follicular thyroid carcinoma. in this study, we conducted bulk ribonucleic acid sequencing of high-risk follicular thyroid carcinoma, including widely invasive subtypes and metastatic tumors, and we identified carbonic anhydrase 12 as a candidate biomarker. high carbonic anhydrase 12 expression was an independent predictor of poor disease-free survival, surpassing conventional clinicopathological parameters. collectively, these findings identified carbonic anhydrase 12 as a novel prognostic biomarker of follicular thyroid carcinoma and a promising therapeutic target.
Does wearing compression stockings on a long-haul flight prevent thrombosis (blood clots) and the associated symptoms? [SEP] frequency and prevention of symptomless deep-vein thrombosis in long-haul flights: a randomised trial. the true frequency of deep-vein thrombosis (dvt) during long-haul air travel is unknown. we sought to determine the frequency of dvt in the lower limb during long-haul economy-class air travel and the efficacy of graduated elastic compression stockings in its prevention. passengers were randomly allocated to one of two groups: one group wore class-i below-knee graduated elastic compression stockings, the other group did not. duplex ultrasonography was used to assess the deep veins before and after travel. none of these passengers wore elastic compression stockings, and two were heterozygous for fvl. four further patients who wore elastic compression stockings, had varicose veins and developed superficial thrombophlebitis. none of the passengers who wore class-i compression stockings developed dvt (95% ci 0-3.2%). we conclude that symptomless dvt might occur in up to 10% of long-haul airline travellers. wearing of elastic compression stockings during long-haul air travel is associated with a reduction in symptomless dvt.
Can extracorporeal shock wave therapy relieve heel pain if the cause is tendonitis or a heel spur? [SEP] heel pain is a very common foot condition. this case study aimed to manage pain in a patient with heel pain accompanied by pronounced pes planus. this study contributes significantly to our knowledge of the best physiotherapy treatments for patients with heel pain associated with spurs and plantar fasciitis. calcaneal spur is a common cause of chronic heel pain and functional disability. in this double-blind, randomized, pl-controlled trial, 128 participants with chronic heel pain from calcaneal spur were randomly assigned to receive either ih ( the analysis revealed a statistically significant group × time interaction for vas pain scores ( individualized homeopathy resulted in statistically and clinically significant improvements in pain and function for patients with calcaneal spur compared to pl. do plantar calcaneal spurs make the plantar aponeurosis enthesis stronger? comparison of short-term efficacy between medial and lateral dual incision approach and medial dual incision approach for endoscopic spur resection combined with plantar fascia release in the treatment of heel pain syndrome. this study employed a retrospective analysis to compare the short-term efficacy of the medial and lateral dual incision approach versus the medial dual incision approach for endoscopic spur resection combined with plantar fascia release in the treatment of heel pain syndrome, aiming to provide orthopedic surgeons with a reference for surgical treatment of heel pain syndrome. this retrospective study evaluated the effectiveness of dexamethasone iontophoresis (di) in patients with insertional achilles tendinopathy (iat) or retrocalcaneal bursitis. radiographic analysis can guide treatment, particularly in more prominent posterior heel spurs.
Does a mixture of hops and other natural remedies help with sleep problems? [SEP] 
Can labor pain during childbirth be relieved by aromatherapy with lavender oil? [SEP] 
Does a patch with high-dose capsaicin relieve pain after shingles? [SEP] 
Does industrially highly processed food increase the risk of cancer? [SEP] ultra-processed foods and human health: an umbrella review and updated meta-analyses of observational evidence. ultra-processed food (upf) intake has increased sharply over the last few decades and has been consistently asserted to be implicated in the development of non-communicable diseases. we aimed to evaluate and update the existing observational evidence for associations between ultra-processed food (upf) consumption and human health. practical applications: the rapid expansion of the chinese fast-food industry has promoted serious health problems, such as colorectal cancer and some cardiovascular diseases. several epidemiological studies revealed that a high intake of processed meats may increase the risk of cancer in humans because cooking food proteins, such as meat, at high temperatures could produce high levels of carcinogenic compounds, such as hcas. because of the vast variation in eating habits, preparation methods and the frequency of meat consumption, it is important to evaluate the accurate level of hcas in commercially available fast-food meat products with the aim to clarify the association between processed meats and the health risk. carcinogenicity of consumption of red meat and processed meat: a review of scientific news since the iarc decision. based on the accumulated scientific literature, the consumption of red meat was classified as "probably carcinogenic to humans" and processed meat as "carcinogenic to humans". it is basic to establish the mechanisms leading to the increased risk of colorectal cancer (crc) and other cancers arising from red and processed meat consumption. finally, it would be highly recommended to conduct new epidemiological studies to elucidate whether the consumption of white meat, such as pork and/or poultry, are -positively or inversely-associated with an increased risk of crc and other types of cancer.
Do amalgam fillings affect the mental development of school children compared to plastic dental fillings? [SEP] 
Does curcumin protect people with already diagnosed dementia from further decline in mental abilities??? [SEP] 
Does taking rosehip powder for rheumatoid arthritis improve symptoms? [SEP] 
Can the genetic blood test for Down syndrome (trisomy 21) predict whether the unborn child is affected - in pregnant women at increased risk? [SEP] 
Does ointment with comfrey help against back pain and knee pain better than a placebo? [SEP] 
Can chlorhexidine in the form of dental varnish prevent the formation of caries in adults? [SEP] 
Does a legal smoking ban reduce the likelihood of cardiovascular disease in nonsmokers? [SEP] 
Do pregnant women who take vitamin D have a lower risk of preterm birth? [SEP] a comparison of serum levels of 25-hydroxy vitamin d in pregnant women at risk for gestational diabetes mellitus and women without risk factors. during pregnancy, low serum 25-hydroxyvitamin-d [25(oh)d] concentration is even more critical. this deficiency leads to higher incidences of preeclampsia, gestational diabetes, preterm birth, bacterial vaginosis, and also affects the health of the infants. the aim of this study was to evaluate the relationships between serum levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin d (25[oh]d) and gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) and differences in high-risk pregnant women and women without risk factors for gdm. this cross sectional study including 155 pregnant women, who are still in the first trimester of pregnancy (less than 12 weeks gestation), were randomized to two groups of high and low risk for gdm. serum levels of 25(oh)d in the second trimester of pregnancy ng / ml (24.1 ± 39.5) was significantly lower than that of the first trimester ng / ml (25.9 ± 45.6) (p <0.001). but serum 25(oh)d levels in the first and second trimester of pregnancy was significantly different in women at high risk for gdm than women who had no risk factors (p =0.584 and p =0.99). serum levels of 25(oh)d has an inverse and significant relationship with hba1c at the beginning of pregnancy (p=0.007). in addition, a significant and inverse relationship was shown between serum levels of 25(oh)d in the second trimester with insulin (p=0.047) and blood sugar 2 hours after ingestion of 75 g glucose (p=0.045) at 24-28 weeks of gestation. regarding to the relationship between serum levels of 25(oh)d and blood sugar and insulin at the second trimester of pregnancy, it is recommended for pregnant women to take vitamin d supplementation.
Do pregnant women who take vitamin D in combination with calcium have a lower risk of preterm birth? [SEP] 
Does quitting smoking prolong life? [SEP] introduction cigarette smoking is the leading cause of preventable death and disease and arises due to prolonged and repeated inhalational exposure to chemical toxicants found in cigarette smoke. furthermore, evidence also suggests that vaping products may be more effective in supporting smoking cessation than traditional support such as nicotine replacement therapy. conclusions overall, these findings support that vaping products may provide smoking cessation support to smokers that exceeds that of other forms of support and that flavoured vaping products are highly provided and utilised by uk sss providers. assessment of real-life effectiveness of an intervention for smoking cessation in people living with hiv (plwh) in long-term follow-up. people are becoming more conscious of the fact that quitting smoking at any age can prolong life and lessen many of the negative consequences of smoking. smokers commonly utilize smoking as a means to reduce tension and anxiety, as it is believed to have a relaxing effect. in conclusion, nicotine withdrawal may lead to cognitive changes and attention disturbances in the short term and enhance exercise-related physical abilities in the long term. cigarette smoking is the leading preventable cause of death and disease. prolonged and repeated inhalational exposure to the chemical toxicants found in cigarette smoke is a known cause of cardiovascular disease, chronic lung disease, and cancer. decline in smoking-related burden in global asdr was observed, yet older adults in low and middle sdi regions retained disproportionately high rates.
Does eating eggs increase the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] effects of fortified eggs and time-restricted eating on cardiometabolic health: the prosperity trial. eggs: healthy or risky? participants who consumed eggs and egg products 1-3 days/week versus those who only occasionally ate eggs showed a lower risk of chronic venous disease [odds ratio (or) 0.542, 95% confidence interval (ci) 0.375-0.782]. egg consumption and risk of all-cause and cause-specific mortality: a systematic review and dose-response meta-analysis of prospective studies. comparing highest versus lowest egg intake categories was not associated with the risk of mortality from all causes (rr: 1.02; 95% ci: 0.94, 1.11; n = 25), cardiovascular disease (cvd) (rr: 1.04; 95% ci: 0.87, 1.23, n = 11), coronary heart disease (chd) (rr: 0.98; 95% ci: 0.84, 1.16; n = 10), stroke (rr: 0.81; 95% ci: 0.64, 1.02; n = 9), and respiratory disease (rr: 0.96; 95% ci: 0.53, 1.71; n = 3); however, it was associated with a higher risk of cancer mortality (rr: 1.20; 95% ci: 1.04, 1.39; n = 13). in the linear dose-response analysis, an additional intake of 1 egg per week was associated with a 2% and 4% increased risk of all-cause and cancer mortality, respectively, and a 4% decreased risk of stroke mortality. higher egg consumption was not associated with an increased risk of mortality from all causes, cvd, chd, stroke, or respiratory disease, whereas an elevated risk was observed for cancer mortality. association between egg consumption and arterial stiffness: a longitudinal study. inconsistent associations between egg consumption and cardiovascular disease (cvd) risk have been observed in previous studies. this study aims to longitudinally investigate the association between egg consumption and altered risk of arterial stiffness, a major pre-clinical pathogenic change of cvd, which was assessed by brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity (bapwv).
Does oseltamivir (brand name "Tamiflu") reduce the severity and duration of influenza in otherwise healthy adults? [SEP] 
Does Active Surveillance reduce the likelihood of becoming impotent or incontinence, i.e. unintentional urine leakage ?? [SEP] 
Do statins help older people suffering from cardiovascular disease to live longer? Do they reduce the risk of heart attack and stroke? [SEP] 
Do phthalates affect semen quality in men? [SEP] phthalate mixtures may adversely affect men's reproductive functioning. this study aimed to analyze the association between exposure to phthalate mixtures, semen quality, and reproductive hormone concentrations in japanese men seeking fertility treatment. higher exposure to phthalate mixtures may be associated with increased sperm motility and serum prolactin and reduced serum testosterone concentrations. to explore the potential roles of steroids involved in androgen synthesis in the association between phthalate exposure and semen quality. the potential contributions of steroids to the associations between phthalate metabolites and semen quality outcomes were explored by mediation effect analysis. association between use of phthalate-containing medication and semen quality among men in couples referred for assisted reproduction. does phthalate exposure from prescription drugs affect semen quality? exposure to phthalate-containing drugs is associated with poor semen quality. one study has shown associations between medicinal phthalate exposure and poor semen quality, suggesting similar effects in humans. our results support the likely negative effect of phthalate exposure from medicinal drugs on semen quality.
Does the Alexander Technique help with back pain and neck pain? [SEP] teachers of the alexander technique in the uk and the people who take their lessons: a national cross-sectional survey. given the rising profile of the alexander technique in the uk, there is a need for a comprehensive description of its teachers and of those who currently take lessons. nearly two-thirds (62%) began lessons for reasons related to musculoskeletal conditions, including back symptoms, posture, neck pain, and shoulder pain. this study provides an overview of alexander technique teaching in the uk today and data that may be useful when planning future research. the alexander technique can help nurses deal with their stressful jobs, as one group recently discovered in a session aimed at their specific needs. the alexander technique involves learning about stress-induced bad habits, such as tightening the neck muscles. the alexander technique approach to posture and body mechanics can be a powerful adjunct to back school. benefits range from relieving neck and back pain to improving body mechanics in child care activities. this approach to working with the mind and body as a whole enables patients to further help themselves without having to depend on long-term therapy in the reduction of overall musculoskeletal problems. health care practitioners, working as a team, have an important role to play in the prevention and control of back pain in expectant women and their partners.
Does an extract from the root of the Cape geranium (Pelargonium sidoides, Umckaloabo) work against bronchitis? [SEP] 
Does taking DHEA have an anti-aging effect by increasing the physical and mental well-being of older people? [SEP] 
Does fluoride toothpaste prevent tooth decay? [SEP] additionally, there was a statistically significant positive change after the training regarding the importance of regular and proper toothbrushing, using dental floss and fluoride-containing children's toothpaste, tongue cleaning, reducing unhealthy snack consumption and visit the dentist regularly, with parental support (p < 0.05). a 40-year decline in permanent-tooth caries among 12-year-olds in japan in the absence of systemic fluoride-based prevention: public health implications. this decline occurred without community water fluoridation and largely before the approval of high-fluoride toothpaste in 2017 and its recommendation for school-aged children in 2023. these findings suggest fluoride-centered frameworks alone may not fully explain long-term population trends and support a broader multicausal approach to caries prevention. they may inform population-level oral health strategies in settings where reliance on systemic fluoride alone may be insufficient. in the multivariable model, dietary intake frequency, oral hygiene status, fluoride toothpaste use, and saliva collection timing were significant predictors of caries risk, whereas salivary ph was not independently associated after adjustment for behavioral and preventive factors. monthly 5% sodium fluoride (naf) varnish with professional brushing significantly improved outcomes versus standard fluoride toothpaste and oral hygiene instructions [ohi] (rr = 1.63, p = 0.002). brushing consistently reduced discoloration across all groups; however, no significant difference was found between fluoridated and non-fluoridated toothpastes, indicating that the mechanical action of brushing-rather than fluoride content-was primarily responsible for stain reduction. clinically, these findings suggest that despite the high staining potential of these fruit juices, strict adherence to daily brushing routines can effectively mitigate esthetic degradation in primary teeth, regardless of the toothpaste's fluoride content. although regular toothbrush and toothpaste use was nearly universal, the use of adjunctive preventive products was limited, and more than half of parents were unaware of the fluoride content of their children's toothpaste.
Can weight loss programs reduce obesity in children and adolescents? [SEP] comparative effects of exercise modalities on ectopic fat reduction in overweight and obese children and adolescents: a narrative review. here, in this narrative review, we review the evidence from pediatric exercise trials that compare these modes of exercise for depot-specific fat loss in overweight/obese adolescents. in adults, combined pa and diet interventions generally outperformed single-component comparators for reducing weight, bmi, waist circumference, and fat mass, and improving cardiorespiratory fitness. metformin use in non-diabetic youth with obesity may improve weight status and reduce comorbidities. the global prevalence of obesity among children and adolescents is a growing concern, with significant implications for long-term health outcomes. effectiveness of a school-based interventional package on adolescent obesity in kanyakumari district. this study aimed to assess the effectiveness of an interventional package using dietary education and yoga in the reduction of obesity among adolescents aged 10-19 years in selected schools in kanyakumari district, india. conclusions the interventional package comprising diet training and yoga was associated with clinically and statistically significant improvements in obesity outcomes in adolescents. these results favor the implementation of such non-pharmacological interventions as part of school health programs to ensure sustainable weight control. a cluster randomised controlled trial investigating the efficacy of family-centred obesity management program in primary care settings: a study protocol.
Can music therapy help people affected by stroke learn to walk normally again? [SEP] 
Does plant or animal protein have an influence on lifespan? [SEP] while alzheimer's disease (ad) is the most common cause of dementia, curative treatments remain unavailable. this framework reveals a fundamental trade-off, as the structural novelty and pleiotropic effects of natural products are often counterbalanced by poor pharmacokinetics, whereas the pharmacological precision of synthetic compounds is frequently limited by compensatory feedback loops. streetview greenspace types and dementia risk in older adults: the multi-ethnic study of atherosclerosis. greenspace has been associated with lower dementia risk but most studies have used satellite-derived measures that cannot distinguish vegetation types. we examined the controlled direct effect of greenspace with dementia accounting for death as a censoring event, using a weighted kaplan-meier survival estimator, with the product of exposure weights and inverse-probability-of-censoring by death. we observed a direct effect of high exposure to %grass on 19-year dementia risk had death been prevented of -4·57 (95% confidence interval:-8·15,-0·40) percentage points. higher percentage of grass may reduce dementia risk. flower visits lasted markedly longer for beetles (56 seconds on average) than for honeybees (2 seconds). abiotic stresses, such as drought, salinity, extreme temperatures, nutrient deficiencies, and heavy metal contamination, severely limit oilseed crop productivity under accelerating climate change. breeding for colored quality protein popcorn with improved amino acid composition.
Can probiotics prevent diarrhea after treatment with antibiotics? [SEP] the administration of antibiotics is associated with the risk of diarrhea due to disruption of the natural gut microbiome, a condition that may persist for several months after the completion of treatment. probiotics are often used to prevent antibiotic-associated diarrhea; however, their effectiveness in this indication remains a subject of discussion. host-derived pediococcus acidilactici glp06 mitigates antibiotic-associated diarrhoea in dogs. antibiotic-associated diarrhea (aad) is an adverse reaction caused by antibiotic treatment, typically resulting from an imbalance in the gut microbiota. restoration of antibiotic associated diarrhea induced gut microbiota disorder by using  a healthy gut depends on a balance of commensal and probiotic bacteria, and prolonged and inappropriate clinical use of antibiotics can cause an imbalance in the gut flora, resulting in antibiotic-associated diarrhea (aad).  recent or ongoing use of antibiotics causes diarrhea. probiotic yogurt is generally used in antibiotic-induced diarrhea as adjuvant therapy. time for the start of diarrhea after the start of antibiotic treatments with probiotics was higher in infants and children of the as cohort than in infants and children of the ay [3 (4-3) days  any type of antibiotic treatment cause diarrhea in infants and young children. some probiotics have strain-specific beneficial effects on aad development when used in combination with antibiotics. • antibiotic associated diarrhea (aad) is one of the common complications of antibiotic use in children and selected probiotics may have a strain-specific effect to prevent aad • there are limited studies about the effects of limosilactobacillus reuteri dsm 17938 on aad, and no study available in pediatric outpatient setting.
Is exercise an effective measure to combat depression? [SEP] the effectiveness of online exercise on physical activity, motor function, and mental health: systematic review and meta-analysis. regular engagement in physical activity and exercise is associated with a multitude of physical and mental health benefits. according to the meta-analysis, oe was superior to no exercise regarding strength (smd=0.61, 95% ci 0.06 to 1.15, n=5 studies), balance (smd=0.52, 95% ci 0.06 to 0.99, n=4 studies), endurance (smd=0.85, 95% ci -0.01 to 1.70, n=5 studies), pa (smd=0.46, 95% ci 0.05 to 0.87, n=5 studies), depression (smd=1.08, 95% ci -0.01 to 2.16, n=4 studies), mood or emotion (smd=0.47, 95% ci 0.05 to 0.90, n=5 studies), mental well-being (smd=0.79, 95% ci 0.06 to 1.52, n=4 studies), and self-efficacy (smd=1.1, 95% ci 1.03 to 1.17, n=3 studies). oe represents an effective strategy to improve pa, physical function, and mental health in healthy adults and may hence help combat physical inactivity. the purpose of this study was to assess the impact of restrictions on students' exercise habits and their levels of anxiety, stress, and depression. effects of peer-supported and self-guided exercise on self-reported anxiety and depression among young adults-a pilot study. the main purpose of this study was to examine the effects of a peer-supported exercise intervention on young adults (vs. self-guided exercise) who reported elevated levels of anxiety and/or depression. "let's get physical" - or social: the role of physical activity versus social group memberships in predicting depression and anxiety over time. physical activity is often promoted as a way to prevent and combat anxiety and depression in adolescents. we explore the hypothesis that it is not physical activity on its own, but rather adolescents' engagement in group life (as part of a sports group or otherwise), that accounts for positive mental health effects associated with physical activity.
Can a tantrum trigger a heart attack? [SEP] 
Does regular consumption of coffee increase the risk of heart disease such as heart attack or stroke? [SEP] we aim to evaluate the association between hr and β-blocker interruption on cardiovascular outcomes. gout and risk of ischemic stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation: a nationwide cohort study. gout is an emerging cardiovascular risk factor. we aimed to assess whether gout is associated with an increased risk of stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation (af). based on diagnosis codes and pharmacy claims data, the association of gout and urate-lowering therapy with the incidence of ischemic stroke was assessed. gout was associated with higher stroke rates in both unadjusted and adjusted analyses (incidence rate ratio, 1.35 [95% ci, 1.22-1.49] and incidence rate ratio, 1.12 [95% ci, 1.02-1.24], respectively). nonanticoagulated crude stroke rates were 1.5, 1.0, and 4.8 per 100 patient-years for gout patients with cha gout is an important risk factor for ischemic stroke in patients with af, and considering gout could improve stroke risk stratification. urate-lowering therapy was associated with reduced stroke risk, suggesting that gout is a modifiable risk factor in patients with af. association between short-term air pollution exposure and the risk of fatal recurrence within 1 year in patients with first-episode acute hemorrhagic stroke: a time-stratified case-crossover study. to analyze the association between short-term exposure to air pollutants and the risk of fatal recurrence within 1 year in patients with first-episode acute hemorrhagic stroke, to provide scientific basis for health management and risk early warning of patients with hemorrhagic stroke in environmental dimension as well as pollution source control.
Do cesarean babies have a higher risk of becoming overweight later in life? [SEP] early life factors influencing the risk of obesity. factors predisposing to obesity include genetics, race, socioeconomic conditions, birth by cesarean section, and perinatal antibiotic use. high protein (hp) content in infant formulas has been identified as a potential culprit predisposing to rapid weight gain in the first few months of life and leading to later obesity. the authors concluded that a hp content of infant formula is associated with higher weight in the first 2 years of life but has no effect on length. lp intake in infancy might diminish the later risk of overweight and obesity. at 6 years of age hp children had a significantly higher body mass index (by 0.51; 95% confidence interval [ci], 0.13-0.90; p=0.009) and a 2.43 (95% ci, 1.12-5.27; p=0.024) fold greater risk of becoming obese than those who received the lp. in conclusion, several factors may influence development of metabolic syndrome and obesity. as a result, extra glucose in the fetus is stored as body fat causing macrosomia, which is also called 'large for gestational age'. for the infant, macrosomia increases the risk of shoulder dystocia, clavicle fractures and brachial plexus injury and increases the rate of admissions to the neonatal intensive care unit. infants of women with gdm are at an increased risk of becoming overweight or obese at a young age (during adolescence) and are more likely to develop type ii diabetes later in life.
Does the pregnancy hormone hCG help with weight loss? [SEP] [characteristics of miscarriage and women's rights after pregnancy loss]. the term "miscarriage" refers to the end of pregnancy before the 22nd week of gestation, or taking into account the criterion of foetal weight (less than 500 g). data from the patient's history, physical examination, ultrasound examination and tests for hcg level can enable diagnosis of bleeding in early pregnancy, help to assess the degree of risk, and implement an appropriate treatment regimen and care for pregnant women adapted to their needs. first-trimester ultrasound and biochemical markers of aneuploidy and the prediction of impending fetal death. to examine the clinical utility of the first-trimester markers of aneuploidy in their ability to predict future fetal loss. the association between free beta-hcg, papp-a and delta nt and the incidence of fetal loss prior to 24 weeks, at or after 24 weeks or at any time, was assessed by comparing the relative incidence at a number of mom or delta nt cut-offs and at various centile cut-offs. the rate of fetal loss increased with decreasing maternal serum free beta-hcg and papp-a and increasing delta nt. at the 5th centile of the normal outcome group for free beta-hcg (0.41 mom) the odds ratio for fetal loss before 24 weeks, at or above 24 weeks and at any gestation was 3.1, 1.8 and 2.6, respectively. there was almost no correlation between reduced levels (<or=0.50 mom) of papp-a and reduced levels of free beta-hcg in either the normal pregnancy group (r = 0.041) or the group with fetal death (r = 0.072), indicating relatively independent prediction by either biochemical marker. the likelihood ratio profiles provided at various levels of papp-a or free beta-hcg may be of some help in counseling women with such results and raise awareness among health-care professionals for increased surveillance in such cases.
Does pelvic floor training help women with stress-related urinary incontinence? [SEP] 
Can treatment with tea tree oil relieve pimples (acne)? [SEP] 
Does electromagnetic radiation from cell phone towers cause health problems such as headaches or sleep disorders? [SEP] numerous studies demonstrated robust associations between wlb disturbances and professional burnout, deterioration of somatic and mental health, sleep disorders, and diminished job satisfaction. breast cancer patients are at an increased risk of insomnia, which can lead to emotional disorders, reduced quality of life, and potentially higher cancer mortality. the findings will provide new insights into the promotion of aa for managing breast cancer-related insomnia in a home-use setting, a method that has the potential to conserve medical resources and alleviate economic burdens. the exposure was sleeping medication use. sleep onset problems and problems maintaining sleep among adults in germany. sleep problems can have negative consequences for quality of life, functioning and health. in the robert koch institute's panel 'health in germany', n = 27,038 participants (51.1 % female) were surveyed on the frequency of sleep onset problems and problems maintaining sleep over the past four weeks. overall, 16.3 % of participants reported sleep onset problems and 31.7 % reported problems maintaining sleep. the results highlight the high public health relevance of problems with falling asleep and staying asleep. in many cases, particularly in viral or post-viral infections, it may persist after the infection, disrupting sleep and daily life.
Can antibiotic-resistant germs from animal husbandry be transferred to humans? [SEP] 
Does regular vitamin D intake lower the risk of cancer in adults? [SEP] among known biomarkers of cvd, only serum vitamin d marginally accounted for such associations. vitamin d intake was assessed using the national cancer institute's 24-hour food recall (asa24). the reported mean daily intake of vitamin d was higher in ts compared to ss (p < 0.05) while 25(oh)d plasma levels were lower in ts than in ss (p < 0.05). after multivariable adjustment for age, body mass index, dietary calcium, vitamin d intake, and other cvd risk factors, the relative risk of cvd for women taking >1,000 mg/day of calcium supplements compared with none was 0.82 (95% confidence interval [ci] 0.74 to 0.92; p for trend <0.001). vitamins in aging, health, and longevity. vitamin d is associated with a decreased occurrence of fractures when taken with calcium. vitamin e and lycopene may decrease the risk of prostate cancer. many studies have suggested a role for calcium in reducing the risk of colorectal adenomas and cancer but its effectiveness may be dependent on interactions with other dietary and/or lifestyle factors. vitamin d deficiency in patients operated on for gastric lymphoma. nutritional requirements for vitamin d should be met, but benefits from pharmacologic doses have not been demonstrated.
1. can MMR vaccination cause autism? [SEP] 11.5% of parents believed the mmr vaccine can cause autism and 21.65% of parents (95% ci: 18.1-25.6%) were vaccine hesitant. the rumour stipulates that the mmr vaccine - the silent shot - causes autism spectrum disorder (asd). four studies claim to have found no association between autism and (a) blood levels of mercury, (b) measles, mumps, and rubella (mmr) vaccine, and (c) thimerosal-containing vaccines. it is extremely unlikely that vaccines are causing autism; but it is extremely likely that they are causing more neurological damage than currently appreciated, some of it resulting in psychosocial disabilities that can be confused with autism and other psychosocial disorders. this report shows how scientific sources have used the vaccine/autism controversy to avoid dealing with genuine neurological risks associated with vaccines and summarizes evidence that vaccines, including the mmr, can cause serious neurological disorders. there is no evidence of an association between mmr immunisation and encephalitis or encephalopathy (rate ratio 0.90, 95% ci 0.50 to 1.61; 2 observational studies; 1,071,088 children; low certainty evidence), and autistic spectrum disorders (rate ratio 0.93, 95% ci 0.85 to 1.01; 2 observational studies; 1,194,764 children; moderate certainty). the mmr vaccine and autism. a report published in 1998, but subsequently retracted by the journal, suggested that measles, mumps, and rubella (mmr) vaccine causes autism. however, autism is a neurodevelopmental condition that has a strong genetic component with genesis before one year of age, when mmr vaccine is typically administered. several epidemiologic studies have not found an association between mmr vaccination and autism, including a study that found that mmr vaccine was not associated with an increased risk of autism even among high-risk children whose older siblings had autism.
3. does vaccination against rotavirus increase the risk of intestinal intussusception in infants? [SEP] we describe characteristics of intussusception cases and assess potential intussusception risk associated with rotarix vaccination in afghan infants. vaccination against rotaviruses significantly reduces the burden of rvge, but it is also associated with a very small increased risk of intussusception. rotavirus vaccination: a risk factor for intussusception? recently published pharmacoepidemiological studies associate the currently authorized rotavirus (rv) vaccines with intussusception (is). risk of intussusception after monovalent rotavirus vaccination. although current rotavirus vaccines were not associated with an increased risk of intussusception in large trials before licensure, recent postlicensure data from international settings suggest the possibility of a small increase in risk of intussusception after monovalent rotavirus vaccination. using sequential analyses, we then compared the risk of intussusception among children receiving monovalent rotavirus vaccine with historical background rates. the attributable risk of intussusception after the administration of two doses of monovalent rotavirus vaccine was estimated to be 5.3 per 100,000 infants vaccinated. safety of second-generation rotavirus vaccines, intussusception. recent data from passive and active surveillance systems in the united states indicate that rv1 and rv5 vaccines may possibly cause a small increase in the risk of intussusception; an estimated 1-3 us infants out of 100 000 might develop intussusception within 7 days of getting their first dose of rotavirus vaccine.
Do pumpkin seed preparations improve symptoms caused by a benign enlarged prostate? [SEP] treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia with phytosterols. in a randomised, double-blind study, the preparation curbicin, obtained from pumpkin seeds and dwarf palm plants (cucurbita pepo l. and sabal serrulata), was compared with a placebo in the treatment of symptoms caused by prostatic hyperplasia; 53 patients took part in the study, which was carried out over a 3-month period. urinary flow, micturition time, residual urine, frequency of micturition and a subjective assessment of the effect of treatment were all significantly improved in the treatment group. no untoward side effects were noted.
Can serious problems occur after stopping antidepressants? [SEP] 
Do unsaturated fats (from plants and fish) reduce cardiovascular disease compared to saturated fats (from meat and dairy products)? [SEP] 
Is a vegetarian diet including eggs and dairy products healthier than a diet that includes meat? [SEP] 
Can washing hands with antibacterial soaps or wash lotions containing triclosan or triclocarban prevent the risk of contracting diseases in the household? [SEP] among these, the triclocarban, a polychlorinated aromatic antimicrobial agent, was employed as a major ingredient of toys, clothing, food packaging materials, food industry floors, medical supplies, and especially of personal care products, such as soaps, toothpaste, and shampoo. samples were assayed for the presence of the common antibacterial agents triclosan and parachlorometaxylenol. only 84 (28%) responded correctly by choosing that regular and frequent hand-washing with good quality soaps was the most effective way to prevent spread of this disease in day-to-day life. in contrast, the addition of antimicrobial compounds such as benzalkonium chloride or triclocarban to soap before washing decreased the growth of group a streptococcus applied after rinse. bactericidal effects of triclosan in soap both in vitro and in vivo. the objective of the present study was to examine the in vitro and in vivo bactericidal effect of triclosan (the most widely used antiseptic agent in soap) in soap. twenty bacterial strains (proposed by the fda) were exposed to plain and antibacterial soaps (the same formulation as plain soap, but containing 0.3% triclosan) for 20 s at 22°c (room temperature) and 40°c (warm temperature). the decontamination efficacy of plain soap and antibacterial soap was also examined in vivo: the hands of volunteers were artificially inoculated with serratia marcescens. however, antibacterial soap showed significantly greater bactericidal effects after 9 h. these results suggest that although triclosan-containing soap does have antibacterial activity, the effects are not apparent during the short time required for hand washing. antibacterial soap containing triclosan (0.3%) was no more effective than plain soap at reducing bacterial contamination when used under 'real-life' conditions.
Does homeopathy work better than a placebo? [SEP] individualized homeopathic medicines as adjunctive treatment of pediatric epilepsy: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. we examined whether individualized homeopathic medicines (ihms) can produce a significantly different effect from placebos in treatment of pediatric epilepsy in the context of ongoing standard care (sc) using anti-epileptic drugs (aeds). priorities and methods for developing the evidence profile of homeopathy. the clinical effectiveness of homeopathy. for human trials using quality of life questionnaires, studies on the activity, content and theoretical basis of homeopathic preparations were reviewed approximately 70% of cases; more in children showed improvement. homeopathy reduced costs and allowed a better improvement in work-days lost compared with conventional practice. homeopathic remedies as placebo alternatives--verification on the example of treatment of menopause-related vegetative and emotional disturbances. with the example of treatment of menopause-related vegetative and emotional disturbances, the author verifies the effectiveness of the use of ignatia amara containing complex homeopathic remedies (iacchr) as an alternative to placebo. the results obtained in this work indicate the significant therapeutic potential of this group of treatments, which is in line with the therapeutic effect of the placebo. does homeopathy work better than placebo?
Does toothpaste containing xylitol reduce the risk of caries? [SEP] xylitol in toothpaste: is it effective in reducing the levels of streptococcus mutans in high caries risk young children? xylitol can help prevent early childhood caries and early sm contamination. xylitol and caries prevention. randomised controlled trials assessing the effects of xylitol products on dental caries in children and adults. over 2.5–3 years, low quality evidence demonstrated that with 4216 children analysed, a fluoride toothpaste with 10% xylitol (exact dosage unsure) reduced caries by 13% when compared to a fluoride only toothpaste. low quality evidence suggested that fluoride toothpaste containing xylitol may be more effective than fluoride-only toothpaste for preventing caries in the permanent teeth of children. xylitol-containing products for preventing dental caries in children and adults. it has been postulated that the consumption of xylitol could help to prevent caries. to assess the effects of different xylitol-containing products for the prevention of dental caries in children and adults. we found some low quality evidence to suggest that fluoride toothpaste containing xylitol may be more effective than fluoride-only toothpaste for preventing caries in the permanent teeth of children, and that there are no associated adverse-effects from such toothpastes.
Does chocolate have a mood-lifting effect? [SEP] 
Is belly fat or is a large abdominal girth particularly dangerous for health? [SEP] for objective analysis, two blinded radiologists placed standardized regions of interest (rois) in the oa, intraorbital fat, and medial rectus muscle belly, respectively. in contrast, pork belly produced higher tsp through fat dripping. combining this imaging plane with quantitative fat% measurement significantly improves objectivity and reliability in the assessment of fi, especially in cases of severe tendon retraction, and offers surgeons a superior pre-operative imaging strategy. associations of abdominal obesity and plasma fatty acids with microvascular diseases. the independent and interactive associations of abdominal obesity and fatty acids with the risk of microvascular diseases (mvds) are still unclear. furthermore, an antagonistic additive interaction is observed between n-3 pufas and abdominal obesity (reri: -0.14, 95% ci: -0.25- -0.03). furthermore, the association between n-3 pufas and a lower risk of mvds is more pronounced among individuals with abdominal obesity. we studied 88,571 people over 13.7 years to see how belly fat, also termed abdominal obesity (measured by the ratio of waist over hip circumference) and blood fatty acids relate to microvascular diseases risk. for people with abdominal obesity, n-3 pufas were especially protective. these findings suggest that public health strategies should emphasize the intake of n-3 fatty acids and the management of belly fat, particularly for individuals at risk of microvascular diseases.
Does the dietary supplement MSM help with osteoarthritis? [SEP] 
Is wheat lectin, which is found in high amounts especially in whole wheat, harmful to health? [SEP] 
Can stevia lower high blood pressure? [SEP] [antihypertensive, antihyperglycemic, and antioxidant effects of stevia rebaudiana bertoni (creole variety inifap c01) extracts on wistar rats with induced metabolic syndrome]. an evidence-based systematic review of stevia by the natural standard research collaboration. evaluation of two long-term studies (1 and 2 years in length, respectively) indicates that stevia may be effective in lowering blood pressure in hypertensive patients, although data from shorter studies (1-3 months) did not support these findings. we have previously demonstrated that stevioside, a diterpene glycoside isolated from the plant stevia rebaudiana bertoni, possesses insulinotropic, glucagonostatic, antihyperglycemic, and blood pressure-lowering effects in animal studies. after 2 weeks of treatment, a decrease in the systolic blood pressure was observed in the stevioside-treated groups (p<.01). this study confirmed that stevioside is an effective antihypertensive natural product, and its hypotensive mechanism may be probably due to inhibition of the ca(2+) influx. antihypertensive effect of stevioside in different strains of hypertensive rats. previous study has shown that it can lower blood pressure in anesthetized spontaneously hypertensive rats (shr). drinking of 0.1% stevioside solution in mature shr could have antihypertensive effect and also prevented hypertension in immature shr. this study reconfirmed stevioside has hypotensive effect and the effect is more prominent in hypertensive rats.
Does consumption of dairy products in middle and advanced age protect against bone fractures? [SEP] fermented milk products and bone health in postmenopausal women: a systematic review of randomized controlled trials, prospective cohorts, and case-control studies. milk and milk product consumption is positively associated with bone mineral density (bmd). results of the meta-analysis of 3 cohort studies (n = 102,819) suggest that higher yogurt consumption was associated with reduced hip fracture risk (pooled rr: 0.76; 95% ci: 0.63, 0.92, i2 = 29%), but no difference in hip fracture risk was found between higher and lower cheese consumption (pooled rr: 0.89; 95% ci: 0.73, 1.10, i2 = 0%). case-control studies revealed that cheese intake had either a null or a protective effect against osteoporosis (bmd t-score ≤-2.5). in postmenopausal women, of the fmps studied, only greater yogurt consumption was associated with a reduced risk of hip fracture compared with low or no intake. milk, dietary calcium, and bone fractures in women: a 12-year prospective study. this study examined whether higher intakes of milk and other calcium-rich foods during adult years can reduce the risk of osteoporotic fractures. we found no evidence that higher intakes of milk or calcium from food sources reduce fracture incidence. likewise, higher intakes of total dietary calcium or calcium from dairy foods were not associated with decreased risk of hip or forearm fracture. these data do not support the hypothesis that higher consumption of milk or other food sources of calcium by adult women protects against hip or forearm fractures.
Can eating grapefruit in combination with some medications lead to harmful interactions? [SEP] 
Can regular consumption of chocolate prevent cardiovascular disease? [SEP] comparative effects of regular, bloomed or white chocolate on cardiovascular and antioxidant markers in healthy adults. cocoa-rich dark chocolate contains bioactive compounds with reported cardioprotective effects; however, evidence regarding the impact of fat-bloomed chocolate in humans is limited. this study evaluated the effects of 15-day consumption of isocaloric portions (316 kcal/day; ∼50 g) of regular dark chocolate (70% cocoa), bloomed dark chocolate (70% cocoa), and white chocolate (0% cocoa) on cardiovascular and antioxidant markers in healthy adults. chocolate acts as an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory, improving endothelial function, blood pressure, lipid profile and platelet function. regular intake of a usual serving size of flavanol-rich cocoa powder does not affect cardiometabolic parameters in stably treated patients with type 2 diabetes and hypertension-a double-blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. regular cocoa consumption has been shown to improve blood pressure (bp), insulin sensitivity, and lipid levels in patients with type 2 diabetes (t2d), using up to 100 g of chocolate or 54 g of cocoa. effects of dark chocolate in a population of normal weight obese women: a pilot study. recent studies have demonstrated that dark chocolate (dc) has beneficial effects in the prevention of cardiovascular diseases (cvd) due to its anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. consumption of cocoa, tea and coffee and risk of cardiovascular disease. the blood pressure lowering effects and the anti-inflammatory activity of dark chocolate suggests its use as potential prophylactic and therapeutic agent, in particular considering that epidemiological studies suggest that dark chocolate is inversely associated with cad.
Are diets with reduced carbohydrate content better for weight loss than other weight loss programs? [SEP] 
Does taking probiotics during pregnancy and early life protect children from atopic dermatitis? [SEP] 
Do whole grains lower the likelihood of dying early? [SEP] 
Does coffee reduce the risk of dementia? [SEP] coffee and tea consumption were associated with a lower risk of all-cause dementia. substituting sugar-sweetened beverages or artificially sweetened beverages with coffee or tea significantly reduced the risk of all-cause dementia. replacing sugar-sweetened beverages or artificially sweetened beverages with coffee or tea was associated with a reduced risk of dementia, particularly among individuals with modifiable risk factors. these findings support beverage substitution as a simple, targeted strategy for mitigating the risk of dementia. a longitudinal cohort study demonstrating the beneficial effect of moderate consumption of green tea and coffee on the prevention of dementia: the jphc saku mental health study. this study aims to investigate the effect of green tea and coffee consumption in middle age on the prevention of dementia. an umbrella review of meta-analysis to understand the effect of coffee consumption and the relationship between stroke, cardiovascular heart disease, and dementia among its global users. over a median follow-up of 20.0 years, any coffee intake was associated with a reduced risk of dementia, atrial fibrillation, painful respirations, infections, atopic dermatitis, and dizziness at a false discovery rate (fdr) of <0.05. observational studies have suggested associations between amount of coffee consumption and decreased risk of neurodegenerative diseases. this study aims to identify associations between the consumption of various coffee types (sugar-sweetened, artificially sweetened, unsweetened, caffeinated, and decaffeinated) and risks of alzheimer's disease and related dementias (adrd) and parkinson's disease (pd), along with related mortality.
Does sugar consumption increase the risk of developing type 2 diabetes regardless of obesity? [SEP] the prevalence and associated risk factors of coronary heart disease in patients with gout: a cross-sectional study. background long-term gout patients have been linked to increased risk of coronary heart disease (chd) and its associated comorbidities. considering p-value<0.05 as significant for the chi-square test, hypertension (p-value=0.001), type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm) (p-value=0.004), family history of chd (p-value=0.001), serum creatinine (p-value=0.02), cholesterol (p-value=0.04), subcutaneous tophi (p-value=0.02), intraosseous tophi (p-value=0.04), and intermittent allopurinol intake (p-value=0.04) were found to be associated with chd in patients with gout. hypertension, t2dm, obesity, high creatinine, high cholesterol, low hdl-c and presence of intraosseous tophi are found to be significant factors of chd in gout patients. association between glycemic status and the risk of gastric cancer in pre/peri-and postmenopausal women: a nationwide cohort study. this study aimed to assess the correlation between glycemic status (prediabetes and type 2 diabetes mellitus) and the risk of gastric cancer according to menopausal status. in postmenopausal women, only diabetes mellitus conferred a higher risk of gastric cancer compared to normal glycemic status (hr, 1.15; 95% ci, 1.09-1.20), with an increasing trend of gastric cancers from prediabetes to diabetes (p for trend < 0.001) observed regardless of menopausal status. obesity, smoking, and heavy alcohol consumption was associated with increased gastric cancer risk mainly in the postmenopausal period. the risk of gastric cancer escalates with deteriorating glycemic status in a dose-response manner. diabetes mellitus is linked with an elevated risk of gastric cancer in postmenopausal women.
Does a lower salt diet reduce the likelihood of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] in 2020 in zhejiang, china, a cross-sectional survey on salt reduction and prevention of hypertension was conducted by using a stratified multistage random sampling strategy, with participants aged 21 to 72 years. it is recommended that hypertension particularly h-type hypertension patients strengthen their kab regarding salt reduction and hypertension, adopt reasonable dietary patterns, to improve potassium intake, and ultimately aid in better hcy and blood pressure management. a feasibility study for a trial testing the effects of reduced-sodium salt on the rise in blood pressure with age. excess sodium intake is associated with elevated blood pressure, a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease. lowering sodium intake by switching regular salt for reduced-sodium salt may attenuate rises in blood pressure with age. participants (≥6 years) were recruited at the household level and provided with reduced-sodium salt (66 % kcl, 34 % nacl) to replace all regular salt for cooking and seasoning over two months. at 2-months, 83 % of participants reported replacing all regular salt with reduced-sodium salt and most participants reported it was similar or better than regular salt for taste (94 %) and overall acceptability (93 %). these findings suggest that lower consumption of nutrients and phytochemicals that are cardioprotective, rather than excess consumption of fat, sugar and sodium, amongst young sas may contribute to their increased cvd risk. global, regional and national ischemic heart disease burden attributable to a high-sodium diet in 204 countries, 1990-2019: a systematic analysis for the global burden of disease study. this research set out to evaluate the worldwide impact of high-sodium diet-related ischemic heart disease(ihd) from 1990 to 2019.
Is less eaten from red plates? [SEP] 
Do azo food dyes cause attention deficit disorder and hyperactivity in children? [SEP] artificial food additives: hazardous to long-term health? ultra-processed foods (upfs) contain combinations of all these additives and are particularly attractive to children.many publications suggest that artificial colourants, benzoate preservatives, non-caloric sweeteners, emulsifiers and their degradation derivatives have adverse effects by increasing risks of mental health disorders, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, cardiovascular disease, metabolic syndrome and potential carcinogenic effects.a systematic review has established that artificial azo dye food colourants (afcs) and sodium benzoate preservative cause disturbed behaviour in children. based on risk/benefit analysis, azo dye afcs should be banned. however, since the use of artificial food coloring has become widespread, many allergic and other immune reactive disorders have increasingly been reported. the consumption of synthetic food colors, and their ability to bind with body proteins, can have significant immunological consequences. pattern of intake of food additives associated with hyperactivity in irish children and teenagers. a double-blind randomized intervention study has previously shown that a significant relationship exists between the consumption of various mixes of seven target additives by children and the onset of hyperactive behaviour. synthetic food colourings and 'hyperactivity': a double-blind crossover study. the parents of 14 children claimed that a particular cluster of behaviours was associated with the ingestion of foods containing synthetic colourings. the findings raise the issue of whether the strict criteria for inclusion in studies concerned with 'hyperactivity' based on 'attention deficit disorder' may miss children who indicate behavioural changes associated with the ingestion of food colourings.
Does breastfeeding reduce the risk of sudden infant death syndrome? [SEP] review of how the advice to reduce sudden infant death syndrome was developed, including its dramatic impact on sweden. this paper describes sudden infant death syndrome (sids) from a medical historical perspective and explores how risk-reducing advice was developed. this mini review of sudden infant death syndrome (sids) includes the medical historical context, risk‐reducing advice and the impact that advice had on sids in sweden. excessive alcohol consumption is associated with reduced milk production, altered milk composition, and increased risk of adverse outcomes such as sudden infant death syndrome (sids), highlighting the importance of managing alcohol intake during breastfeeding. associations of breastfeeding with maternal and child health outcomes: umbrella review. breastfeeding (bf) has been reported to be beneficial for both mothers and their offspring, but the evidence for these associations has not been systematically evaluated. for short-term offspring outcomes, 5 meta-analyses (5/114, 4.4%) were considered to provide convincing evidence that exclusive bf or ever bf was associated with lower risks of sudden infant death syndrome [or: 0.63; 95% confidence interval (ci): 0.54, 0.73] and allergic rhinitis (or: 0.61; 95% ci: 0.54, 0.70), alongside improved physical fitness (standing long jump, standardized mean differences: 0.20-0.27). safe sleep crib clinics: promoting risk reduction strategies for sudden unexpected infant death. safe sleep community baby showers (cbs) provide group education to reduce risk factors of sudden unexpected infant death (suid). breastfeeding is a cost-effective intervention associated with a lower risk of health conditions driving dyadic morbidity and mortality, including cardiometabolic disease and sudden infant death.
Is it harmful for the mental development of the unborn child if the mother regularly eats fish contaminated with mercury during pregnancy? [SEP] 
Are vegetables prepared in a microwave oven less healthy than those prepared in other ways? [SEP] 
Can green tea affect the likelihood of dying early and reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] 
Can acupuncture prevent migraines and tension headaches? [SEP] utility of acupuncture therapy for adult chronic daily headache prophylaxis: a systematic review and meta-analysis. acupuncture has shown promise in chronic headache management. compared with control, acupuncture significantly reduced headache frequency (mean difference [md], -0.32; p=0.001), headache days (md, -0.72; p<0.00001), intensity (standardized mean difference [smd], -0.63; p=0.001), duration (smd, -1.18; p=0.0001), and analgesic use (md, -0.52; p<0.00001) after the intervention. effectiveness of electroacupuncture and manual acupuncture in patients with tension-type headache: a study protocol for a randomized, usual care-controlled, three-arm clinical trial. effects on neuromodulation, acupuncture, and aerobic exercises on migraine and tension-type headache outcomes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. this systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to evaluate the effects of various non-pharmacological treatments to address or prevent acute headaches, including neuromodulation, acupuncture, and aerobic exercises in patients with episodic migraine and tension-type headache (tth). acupuncture was associated with the alleviation of headache days (wmd: -0.677, 95% ci [-0.932, -0.422], p < .001) and intensity (wmd: -0.893, 95% ci [-1.573, -0.212], p = .01) in cases of migraine and acute medication use (wmd: -3.29, 95% ci [-4.86, -1.72], p < .001) in cases of tth. treatment of headache disorders with acupuncture: a 6-year retrospective study. existing systematic reviews and meta-analyses indicate that acupuncture has similar clinical effectiveness in the prevention of headache disorders (hds) as drug therapy, but with fewer side effects. our study has shown that patients with hds in tertiary care who opted for treatment with acupuncture appeared to receive similar clinical benefits to those that chose pdt, suggesting these treatments may be similarly effective of the prevention of headache in a real-world clinical setting.
Can green tea reduce the likelihood of dying from cancer ? [SEP] prevention of bladder cancer incidence and recurrence: nutrition and lifestyle. we review the influence of nutrition and lifestyle on bladder cancer incidence and recurrence and summarize food items, diets and lifestyle practices that physicians may wish to prioritize for discussion with their patients. recent study results suggest an association between bladder cancer incidence and several food items including meat, fruit, vegetables, milk products and oil. micronutrient deficiency is associated with bladder cancer risk; however, it remains unclear if micronutrient supplementation can modify bladder cancer incidence. furthermore, total fluid intake, alcohol, coffee and tea seem to have no influence on bladder cancer incidence. there is weak evidence that stress, anxiety and lack of sleep may increase the risk of developing bladder cancer, whereas exercise may reduce the risk of dying from it. several dietary items and life styles are associated with bladder cancer incidence and recurrence. however, besides smoking cessation, there is no evidence that a certain diet or lifestyle can decrease bladder cancer incidence.
Can too much iodine cause autoimmune thyroid disease and consequently hypothyroidism? [SEP] 
Is the sweetener aspartame harmful to health? [SEP] 
Does coffee affect cancer death risk? [SEP] overall, a protective effect of coffee and tea consumption on cancer survival was suggested. overall, family history of cancer (hr = 7.34; 95% ci: 3.30-16.36), drinking alcohol (hr = 1.82; 95% ci: 1.18-2.81), and smoking (hr = 2.22; 95% ci: 1.36-3.63) were found to be risk factors, while drinking coffee was found to be a protective factor (hr = 0.49; 95% ci: 0.24-1.00) for cancer-related deaths in young adults. prospective investigation of serum metabolites, coffee drinking, liver cancer incidence, and liver disease mortality. coffee has been consistently associated with lower risk of liver cancer and chronic liver disease, suggesting that coffee affects mechanisms underlying disease development. a broad range of compounds were associated with coffee drinking, incident liver cancer, and liver disease death over 27 years of follow-up. coffee consumption and all-cause and cause-specific mortality: a meta-analysis by potential modifiers. non-linear inverse associations between coffee consumption and mortality from all-causes, cardiovascular disease (cvd), and cancers were found. to examine the association of coffee consumption with risk for total and cause-specific death. coffee consumption and risk of all-cause, cardiovascular, and cancer mortality in smokers and non-smokers: a dose-response meta-analysis. in conclusion, coffee consumption is associated with decreased risk of mortality from all-cause, cvd, and cancer; however, smoking modifies the observed risk when studying the role of coffee on human health.
Are there health benefits to screening the general population for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) as a precaution? [SEP] 
Can cow's milk cause iron deficiency in babies in the first year of life? [SEP] diet and iron deficiency in the first year of life: a retrospective study. a cows milk intake > or = 650 ml/day was a risk factor for iron deficiency. prevalence of iron deficiency at 18 months was high despite appropriate infant feeding practices during the first year. in the first year of life, measures to prevent iron deficiency include completely avoiding cow's milk, starting iron supplementation at four to six months of age in breastfed infants, and using iron-fortified formula when not breastfeeding. early introduction of cows' milk was the strongest negative determinant of iron status. avoidance of cows' milk feeding during the first year of life is the key measure in the prevention of iron deficiency. given the importance of iron nutrition during the first year of life, there are surprisingly few true, randomized, controlled studies addressing this issue; however, it seems that iron deficiency is unlikely in full-term, breastfed infants during the first 6 months of life because these infants' body iron stores are sufficient to meet requirements. the biologic variability among infants and among their mothers that allows many infants who do not receive iron-fortified foods to prevent iron deficiency while receiving only human milk throughout the first year of life is intriguing and warrants additional study. the factors that were found to be predictors of iron deficiency anemia included the use of whole cow's milk before 6 months of age (odds ratio [or] 3.56 [95% ci 1.07 to 11.26]) and the use of iron-fortified infant cereal for less than 6 months (or 3.15 [95% ci 1.25 to 7.96]). these results show a relationship between iron deficiency of the mother at delivery and the development of iron deficiency in the infants.
Does drinking breast milk as a baby have a positive effect on later health and development? [SEP] infant feeding practices and risk of dental caries in japan: the osaka maternal and child health study. the purpose of this study was to prospectively investigate the association between infant feeding practices and the development of early childhood caries (ecc). subjects were 315 children. information about the variables under study and potential confounding factors were obtained by questionnaire during pregnancy and when the children were two to nine, 16 to 24, 29 to 39, and 41 to 49 months old. outcome data were collected at 41 to 50 months old. children were classified as having ecc if one or more primary teeth had decayed or been filled. compared with breast-feeding for six months or fewer, breast-feeding for 18 months or longer tended to be positively associated with a risk of ecc, and a u-shaped relationship was observed. use of a bottle to drink sweetened liquids other than milk and the introduction of solid foods at six months old or later were positively associated with a risk of ecc. there was no significant association between bottle-feeding while falling asleep at night and the risk of ecc. prolonged breast-feeding, bottle use for sweetened liquids other than milk, and the introduction of solid foods at six months old or later might be risk factors for the development of dental caries.
Do large portions, large plates or glasses, and larger packaging cause us to eat and drink more? [SEP] using social norms to reduce plate waste in corporate dining. because of their scale, corporate dining settings have a major role to play in reducing food waste. in this work, we applied behavioral science methods to reduce plate waste at a large international technology company (google). these findings demonstrate that behavioral science methods offer a cost-effective, scalable approach to reducing plate waste in corporate dining environments. are weight control and food waste a trade-off? : a clustering of pre-meal portion planning and plate-clearing behaviors among japanese adult consumers. plate-clearing behavior (pcb), a maladaptive behavior in a food environment characterized by large, energy-dense portions of food, may contribute to weight gain over time. if a portion size is selected that causes overeating, a trade-off exists between food waste and weight gain due to pcb. this study aimed to identify these patterns in various meal situations and describe the demographic, anthropometric, psychological, and lifestyle-related characteristics of those following each pattern. low bmi and a higher positive attitude toward food waste were independent predictors in high ppp-o and low pcb, while high bmi was an independent predictor in moderate ppp-o and high pcbs and low attitude toward food waste were independent predictors in moderate ppp-o and low pcb.
Do kava kava supplements help with anxiety disorders? [SEP] dietary supplements used in the treatment of depression, anxiety, and sleep disorders. dietary supplement use has increased during the past decade. epidemiologic studies suggest that patients turn to dietary supplements because of a reluctance to take prescription medications or a lack of satisfaction with the results. they often perceive dietary supplements to be a safer or more natural alternative. patients with mental health conditions, including depression, anxiety, and sleep disorders, are among those who use dietary supplements. st. john's wort is used to treat depression. clinical studies comparing dietary supplements with low-dose antidepressants (maprotiline, amitriptyline, or imipramine at 75 mg/day) or high-dose antidepressants (imipramine at 150 mg/day) find no significant difference between treatments. kava kava is used to treat anxiety. clinical trials demonstrate it to be superior to placebo, and roughly equivalent to oxazepam 15 mg/day or bromazepam 9 mg/day. agents discussed for use in sleep disorders include melatonin, valerian, 5-hydroxytryptamine, catnip, chamomile, gotu kola, hops, l-tryptophan, lavender, passionflower, skullcap, and valerian.
Does the risk of food allergy decrease if babies are fed potentially allergenic foods (cow's milk, peanuts, chicken egg) as late as possible for the first time? [SEP] 
for fish, sesame, wheat? [SEP] to examine parent-reported barriers and facilitators to the early introduction and sustained feeding of commonly allergenic foods (peanut, egg, cow's milk, tree nuts, wheat, sesame, fish, shellfish, and soy) in infants. these gaps underscore the need for standardised, context-specific guidance tailored to the diverse sociocultural and dietary landscape of the country. recognition of region-specific allergens-including milk, wheat, egg, peanut, fish, chickpea, lentils, and sesame-is emphasised to improve diagnostic accuracy and culturally relevant patient counselling. food allergy is a serious public health issue, affecting 2-10 % of the global population, more than 90 % of which is triggered by "big nine" allergenic foods, including tree nuts, shellfish, fish, eggs, soybean, peanuts, milk, wheat, and sesame. all groups had higher odds than white children of allergies to fish and shellfish, but only a/pi children also had higher odds of peanut, egg, wheat, and sesame allergies. the global burden of food allergy. common triggers include peanuts, milk, eggs, fish, shellfish, wheat, soy, and sesame, with some, like peanut and tree nut allergies, often lasting into adulthood. according to fda, the "big-eight" allergens found in foods include wheat (gluten), peanuts, egg, shellfish, milk, tree nuts, fish, and soybeans. sesame was added to the list in 2023, making the target allergen list nine instead of eight. the prevalence of food allergy remains highest in early childhood with common food triggers being cow's milk, soy, hen's egg, wheat, peanut, tree nuts, sesame, fish, and shellfish.
Can a supposedly "high acid" diet weaken bones? [SEP] 
Is surgery for an anterior cruciate ligament tear (by replacing the broken anterior cruciate ligament with tendon tissue from another part of the leg) followed by physical therapy better than physical therapy alone? [SEP] 
Can motherwort reduce migraine attacks? [SEP] 
Does the herbal hormone genistein reduce the number and intensity of hot flashes during menopause??? [SEP] 
Does treatment according to the fascial distortion model help with chronic shoulder pain? [SEP] 
Are there effective alternatives to the breathing mask (CPAP) for sleep apnea? [SEP] 
Does closure of the foramen ovale prevent further strokes in people who have had a stroke of unknown cause? [SEP] residual shunt after patent foramen ovale closure and long-term stroke recurrence: a prospective cohort study. residual shunt is observed in up to 25% of patients after patent foramen ovale (pfo) closure, but its long-term influence on stroke recurrence currently is unknown. long-term outcomes of patent foramen ovale closure or medical therapy after stroke. whether closure of a patent foramen ovale reduces the risk of recurrence of ischemic stroke in patients who have had a cryptogenic ischemic stroke is unknown. mid-term results of interventional closure of patent foramen ovale with the occlutech figulla patients with a patent foramen ovale (pfo) who suffered from stroke, tia or peripheral paradoxical embolism are at substantial risk for recurrent neurologic events and in need for secondary prevention. percutaneous patent foramen ovale closure: the paradoxical cerebral embolism prevention registry. closure of patent foramen ovale versus medical therapy after cryptogenic stroke. whether closure of a patent foramen ovale is effective in the prevention of recurrent ischemic stroke in patients who have had a cryptogenic stroke is unknown. in the primary intention-to-treat analysis, there was no significant benefit associated with closure of a patent foramen ovale in adults who had had a cryptogenic ischemic stroke. long-term efficacy of transcatheter patent foramen ovale closure on migraine headache with aura and recurrent stroke.
Does taking magnesium salts decrease the frequency and intensity of muscle cramps with unknown cause? [SEP] 
Does taking magnesium salts reduce the frequency and intensity of muscle cramps in pregnancy? [SEP] 
Does the active ingredient rivaroxaban (drug Xarelto) have a higher risk of dangerous bleeding than other anticoagulants? [SEP] 
Does brain training boost intelligence? [SEP] competency-based neurosurgical education requires not only structured assessment but also adaptive learning systems capable of detecting individual progress patterns. the rckas-ai model accelerates competency acquisition, improves feedback accuracy, and operationalizes the construct of adaptive learning stability, supporting more consistent longitudinal skill development. self-supervised pretraining produced smaller and more variable gains, although select models better mitigated against false positives on the brugada mimic dataset. the integration of active learning and artificial intelligence is gaining importance in nursing education. however, the artificial intelligence-simulation group reported significantly higher satisfaction and lower cognitive load. the immediate feedback and repeatable practice boosted confidence and communication skills, transforming initial stress into a productive learning experience. although the artificial intelligence simulation did not lead to superior skill acquisition, it was highly effective in enhancing the learning experience by increasing satisfaction, reducing cognitive load and building confidence. while smote enhanced model learning during training. the supervised exercise program included warm-up, cardiorespiratory endurance, strength resistance, balance, and flexibility training, followed by a cooldown. artificial intelligence (ai) has demonstrated superior diagnostic accuracy compared with medical practitioners, highlighting its growing importance in health care.
Does the drug Sovaldi (sofosbuvir) enable high cure rates for chronic hepatitis C? [SEP] failure on voxilaprevir, velpatasvir, sofosbuvir and efficacy of rescue therapy. there are limited data on patients with chronic hcv infection in whom combination voxilaprevir (vox), velpatasvir (vel), sofosbuvir (sof) retreatment fails. samples from 40 patients with hcv genotypes (gt) 1-4 in whom vox/vel/sof retreatment failed were collected within the european resistance study group. most vox/vel/sof failure patients were infected with hcv gt3a (n = 18, 45%) or gt1a (n = 11, 28%) and had cirrhosis (n = 28, 70%). in 22 patients, rescue treatment was initiated with glecaprevir, pibrentasvir alone (n = 2) or with sof±ribavirin (n = 15), vox/vel/sof±ribavirin (n = 4) or vel/sof and ribavirin (n = 1) for 12 to 24 weeks. sustained virologic response was achieved in 17/21 (81%) patients with a final treatment outcome. of these, 2 gt3a-infected patients had virologic failure after rescue treatment with vel/sof or glecaprevir/pibrentasvir+sof+ribavirin, and 2 patients with cirrhosis died during treatment or before reaching svr12. rescue treatment with multiple targeted therapies was effective in most patients. the advent of direct-acting antivirals has enabled the effective cure of chronic hepatitis c in most patients. however, treatment failure occurs in some patients, who are often retreated with a combination regimen called vox/vel/sof, which is associated with very high rates of cure.
Can shoe insoles relieve pain in people with high arches? [SEP] 
Can dowsers find harmful soil zones or water veins? [SEP] using native mexican varieties of maize (zea mays) adapted to a wide range of environmental conditions, we show vein density is variable and plastic. our results show that higher vein densities are correlated with higher photosynthetic rates, but only for small intermediate veins. four hearts were perfused through the aortic root using a controlled circuit, applying variable concentrations of sodium dodecyl sulfate (sds) or trypsin, followed by washout solutions including saline, distilled water, or hypothermic buckberg cardioplegia. by considering the extent of extravascular lung water and the inferior vena cava (ivc) size, clinicians can obtain objective data to guide them in determining the appropriate level of diuresis for the safe and effective treatment of pulmonary edema. however, data on the use of structured ultrasound protocols, such as the reverse-falls protocol, to guide and monitor diuretic therapy in the emergency department are limited. aorta and coronary artery assessment using high-contrast respiratory motion corrected and ecg-gated 3d t2-prepared gre mri with dixon fat-water separation in patients with and without prior aortic root surgery at 3 t. magnetic resonance imaging (mri) is a widely utilized, non-invasive imaging modality for evaluating aortic diseases. additionally, diameters of the aorta and coronary arteries were assessed. broad-spectrum hepatoprotection by  chronic exposure to even low levels of pesticides is a serious public health issue, mainly due to the role of oxidative stress in damaging the liver and promoting cancer. eighteen representative samples of metagabbro, olivine gabbro, and serpentinite were analyzed using integrated petrographic and geotechnical methods. in contrast, serpentinites, mostly made up of antigorite, talc, and carbonate veins, showed lower strength (67.3 mpa) due to alteration but had weight losses below 1% during testing.
Does bioresonance therapy help with health complaints? [SEP] 
Do irradiations with cold red light help with chronic gingivitis? [SEP] 
Does the Aspire system help you lose weight? [SEP] 
Can butterbur prevent migraine attacks? [SEP] petasins are the pharmacologically active ingredients of butterbur and of therapeutic benefit in the treatment of migraine and tension headaches. here, we summarize the pharmacology, safety and clinical efficacy of butterbur in the prevention of migraine attacks and present new data on its mode of action. together, butterbur is effective in the prevention of migraine attacks by blocking cgrp signaling. petasites (butterbur) is effective for migraine prevention and should be offered to patients with migraine to reduce the frequency and severity of migraine attacks (level a). non-pharmacological approach to migraine prophylaxis: part ii. [alternatives to beta blockers in preventive migraine treatment]. treatment of migraine with prophylactic drugs. butterbur root extract and music therapy in the prevention of childhood migraine: an explorative study. this study was to assess efficacy of a butterbur root extract (petadolex) and music therapy in primary school children with migraine. butterbur root extract and music therapy might be superior to placebo and may represent promising treatment approaches in the prophylaxis of paediatric migraine.
Can maggots accelerate the healing of chronic wounds compared to conventional treatment? [SEP] evaluation of conventional therapeutic methods versus maggot therapy in the evolution of healing of tegumental injuries in wistar rats with and without diabetes mellitus. larval therapy consists on the application of sterilized carrion flies larvae, reared in laboratory, on acute, chronic, and/or infected wounds in order to promote healing. conventional methods for treating injuries include mechanical debridement or silver-based dressings; however, they are not always effective for wound healing. larval therapy is a feasible and safe treatment for therapeutic application and, in many cases, the only and the most recommended alternative for difficult healing injuries. thus, this study aimed to evaluate the competence of cochliomyia macellaria f. (diptera: calliphoridae) as a suitable species for therapeutic application and evaluate time and effectiveness of the types of treatments most commonly used to treat integumental injuries. c. macellaria eggs were obtained from colonies established in laboratory and sterilized prior to application. twenty-five larvae were applied for each centimeter squared of lesion. lesions were induced in 24 wistar rats; type 1 diabetes mellitus was induced in 12 of them. animals were divided in four groups with three individuals each, being denominated: larval therapy, larval therapy associated with foam dressing with silver release, mechanical debridement with foam dressing silver and control group, without treatment. all treatments were applied once and held for 24 h. medical application of larvae was found to be safe, as only dead tissue was removed, and efficient to accelerate healing process when compared to other treatments.
Do electric toothbrushes protect oral health better than manual brushes? [SEP] a randomized controlled clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of an oscillating-rotating electric toothbrush, a stannous fluoride dentifrice, and floss on gingivitis. to evaluate the gingival health efficacy of an oscillating-rotating electric toothbrush, a stannous fluoride dentifrice, and dental floss in adults with mild-to-moderate gingivitis. this was a single-center, randomized, controlled, examiner-blind, two-treatment, eight-week parallel group study in adults with at least 20 gingival bleeding sites. eligible subjects were randomized equally to one of two groups: experimental oral hygiene group that included an oral-b® oscillating-rotating electric toothbrush with round brush head (d20/eb20), crest® stabilized stannous fluoride dentifrice (snf2 1100 ppm f, naf 350 ppm f), and oral-b® glide® floss; or regular oral hygiene control group that included a regular manual toothbrush (oral-b® indicator 35) and crest® anti-cavity sodium fluoride dentifrice (naf 1450 ppm f). subjects followed manufacturer's instructions and used their assigned products over an eight-week period. gingival health was measured at baseline, week 4, and week 8 using three assessments: gingival bleeding index (gbi), number of bleeding sites, and modified gingival index (mgi). analysis of covariance was used to compare gingival health between treatment groups. only the experimental group showed statistically significant reductions from baseline (p < 0.0001) for all three gingivitis assessments at both weeks 4 and 8. at these time points, better gingival health for the experimental group was seen as significantly lower adjusted mean scores versus the control group (p < 0.0001) for all three assessments. over an eight-week period, an oral hygiene routine with an oscillating-rotating electric toothbrush, stannous fluoride dentifrice, and floss significantly improved gingivitis compared to regular hygiene with a manual toothbrush and an anti-cavity sodium fluoride dentifrice.
Do antidepressants from the group of serotonin reuptake inhibitors help with depression? [SEP] 
Can topiramate reduce the frequency of migraine attacks? [SEP] cinnarizine vs. topiramate for migraine prophylaxis in children: a randomized, double-blind, parallel-group clinical trial. this study aimed to compare the efficacy and tolerability of cinnarizine and topiramate in the prophylaxis of migraine in children and adolescents. both cinnarizine and topiramate significantly reduced monthly migraine attack frequency and headache severity over the 12-week treatment period (p < 0.001 for within-group comparisons). both cinnarizine and topiramate significantly reduced the frequency and severity of migraine attacks in children. topiramate, valproate, and propranolol demonstrated significant efficacy in the prevention of migraines. this network meta-analysis confirmed the significant efficacy of topiramate, valproate, and propranolol in migraine prevention and identified potential benefits of memantine, melatonin, vitamin d3, and combination therapies. outcome of topiramate in migraine prophylaxis. topiramate is an antiepileptic medication originally and one of the first-line drugs for migraine prophylaxis. herein, we aimed to assess the outcome of topiramate in migraine prophylaxis by evaluating the reduction in frequency and/or severity of attacks and addressing the most common adverse effects associated with it. reduction in frequency of attacks there was significant in both number and severity ( topiramate is effective in reducing headache frequency and reasonably well tolerated in adult sudanese patients with episodic migraine.
Does particulate matter pollution increase the risk of heart attack - even if the EU limits are complied with? [SEP] 
Can a dietary supplement containing omega-3 fatty acids, lipids, vitamins, and nutrients ("Souvenaid") noticeably slow or halt the decline of mental performance in Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] alzheimer's disease (ad) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder, characterized by progressive cognitive decline. these results suggest that aadvac1 tau immunotherapy can reduce plasma biomarkers of neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation. the current food and drug administration-approved pharmacotherapeutics for dementia neither cure nor halt cognitive decline; they just delay the worsening cognitive impairment. our narrative review shows that many of these nutrients and phytonutrients may be promising for treating some aspects of cognitive impairment, especially for people afflicted with ad. as demonstrated in a number of clinical trials, healthy adults and patients with various health challenges (e.g., ad, mild cognitive impairment, multiple sclerosis, and parkinson's disease) exhibiting a wide range of severity in cognitive defects would be best served to consider multiple nutrients and phytonutrients to improve aspects of their cognitive function. although recent clinical trials targeting amyloid-β in alzheimer's disease have shown promising results, there is increasing evidence suggesting that understanding alternative disease pathways that interact with amyloid-β metabolism and amyloid pathology might be important to halt the clinical deterioration. alzheimer’s disease is one of the most common forms of dementia, characterised by declining memory and thinking skills, and behavioural changes that worsen over time. detecting alzheimer’s disease early could aid diagnosis and enable early intervention, while also improving the chances of finding treatments to halt or reverse the disease. these results build upon previous findings from animal research suggesting that gamma oscillations may be disrupted in early alzheimer’s disease. could lead the way to new ways of diagnosing alzheimer’s disease, where early indicators are urgently needed.
Do vitamin E supplements increase the likelihood of early death? [SEP] antioxidant supplement use after breast cancer diagnosis and mortality in the life after cancer epidemiology (lace) cohort. there is concern that antioxidant supplement use during chemotherapy and radiation therapy may decrease treatment effects, yet the effects of such supplements on recurrence and survival are largely unknown. among antioxidant users, frequent use of vitamin c and vitamin e was associated with a decreased risk of bc recurrence (vitamin c: hr, 0.73; 95% ci, 0.55-0.97; vitamin e: hr, 0.71; 95% ci, 0.54-0.94); and vitamin e use was associated with a decreased risk of all-cause mortality (hr, 0.76; 95% ci, 0.58-1.00). conversely, frequent use of combination carotenoids was associated with increased risk of death from bc (hr, 2.07; 95% ci, 1.21-3.56) and all-cause mortality (hr, 1.75; 95% ci, 1.13-2.71). frequent use of vitamin c and vitamin e in the period after bc diagnosis was associated with a decreased likelihood of recurrence, whereas frequent use of combination carotenoids was associated with increased mortality. effects of maternal micronutrient supplementation on fetal loss and infant mortality: a cluster-randomized trial in nepal. we examined the effect of daily maternal micronutrient supplementation on fetal loss and infant mortality. among term infants, the rr for mortality was close to 1 for all supplements except mns (rr: 1.74; 95% ci: 1.00, 3.04). maternal micronutrient supplementation failed to reduce overall fetal loss or early infant mortality. use was significantly associated with family history of mi, hypertension, elevated cholesterol levels, body mass index, alcohol consumption, exercise, and use of vitamin e supplements.
Does meditation help against stress? [SEP] psychoneuroimmunology of meditation. meditation is a conscious mental discipline, that has been implicated in the relaxation response. research to date suggests that meditation may play an active role in remodeling the imbalance between mind and body by modulating the psychoneuroimmunological effects of stress. meditation is a scientific tool against neuro-psychiatric illnesses. research suggests that multiple forms of relaxation training (e.g., progressive muscle relaxation, meditation, breathing exercises, visualization, and autogenics) can help individuals reduce stress, enhance relaxation states, and improve overall well-being. our results lend support to the body of research showing that stress relaxation training can be effective in improving relaxation states at both the psychological and physiological level. proper awareness of adequate health and safety measures, use of personnel protection equipment, regular conversation with family members, and meditation can help reduce stress during this pandemic situation. meditation or exercise for preventing acute respiratory infection (mepari-2): a randomized controlled trial. practice of meditation or exercise may enhance health to protect against acute infectious illness. to assess preventive effects of meditation and exercise on acute respiratory infection (ari) illness.
Are there methods that effectively help against hormonal hair loss? [SEP] innovative strategies for the discovery of new drugs against androgenetic alopecia. androgenetic alopecia (aga) is the most common cause of hair loss worldwide. finally, they summarize the primary objectives in aga treatment development, including direct hair growth promotion, interference with androgen signaling, and hf rejuvenation, identifying key pathogenesis intervention points for treatment development. developing better  androgenetic alopecia (aga), typically called male/female pattern baldness, is the most common type of hair loss worldwide. it is caused by the action of androgen hormones targeting cells in hair follicles and causing them to age prematurely and eventually die off. they also outline the main goals in developing new aga treatments: namely directly promoting hair growth, blocking the effects of androgens, or rejuvenating damaged hair follicles.the authors suggest that creating better lab models, possibly using induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs), could speed up drug discovery for aga. improving how drugs are delivered to the scalp could help in the near future. in the longer term, treatments that address the underlying causes of aga, restoring hair follicle size and increasing scalp hair follicle density, would be most beneficial for patients. the results of this study showed that antidepressant treatment might help in improving alopecia areata in patients with major depressive disorder. oral contraceptive pills were protective against mastalgia (odds ratio [or], 0.7), cramping (or, 0.5), hair loss (or, 0.6), acne (or, 0.4), nervousness (or, 0.5), and mood swings (or, 0.7).
Does eye training help prevent myopia? [SEP] with careful statistical adjustment, these findings suggest that changing classroom lighting could be a simple, passive way to help control myopia at the population level. in addition, this review explores how utilizing this knowledge can help develop promising future treatment strategies to reduce the incidence and severity of myopia. myopia threatens healthy physical and mental development in children. research suggests that motor imagery training could serve as a non-invasive and cost-effective non-pharmacological intervention to address myopia and promote health. the findings of this study may help develop interventions to prevent myopia through activation of ciliary muscles. atropine eye drops and myopia-controlling contact lenses can help to slow down its progression, but neither is sufficient alone. the incidence of myopia is continuously increasing worldwide, especially in china, where the prevention and control of myopia is of great significance. accurate prediction of myopia and early intervention are of great importance for slowing down the development of myopia and reducing the social burden. this article reviews the research progress of myopia prediction models and their predictive performance in recent years. these research advances provide a reference for establishing more accurate myopia prediction models and help achieve precise and personalized myopia prevention and control.
Is acupuncture for chronic pain more effective than placebo acupuncture treatment? [SEP] responders showed a consistently higher rate of return to baseline pain during the 12-week post-treatment follow-up in the placebo group compared to the acupuncture group (hazard ratio: 2.72, 95% ci: 1.13-6.54). penetrating acupuncture and skin-touch placebo needle groups had pain reduction, not significantly different between groups. pain reduction lasted longer for significantly more responders in the penetrating acupuncture vs. skin-touch placebo groups. yet, the extent to which more intense placebo interventions like sham acupuncture yield larger analgesic responses than placebo pills, and the factors predicting these responses, remain unclear. this meta-analysis investigated the magnitude and predictors of placebo analgesia responses in pharmacological vs acupuncture trials. a random effects model demonstrated that placebo pills and patients with osteoarthritis exhibited smaller placebo responses than sham acupuncture and patients with low back pain (both p < 0.001, marginal effects). in summary, sham acupuncture accounted for slightly larger placebo responses than placebo pills. assessing the efficacy of acupuncture as the sole analgesic for canine chronic pain. in dogs with chronic pain, is acupuncture alone, compared to a placebo, more efficacious in alleviating pain and pain-related dysfunction? based on the limited current evidence, acupuncture could have analgesic effects as perceived by owners, but acupuncture, as a sole analgesic, is unlikely to be effective in alleviating pain and pain-related dysfunction in canine chronic pain associated with musculoskeletal causes.
Can Internet-based self-help training based on cognitive behavioral therapy reduce the burden of tinnitus? [SEP] long-term outcomes of an internet-based cognitive behavior therapy intervention for tinnitus: follow-up analysis of a nonrandomized clinical trial. determining the durability of treatment effects extending more that 1 year postintervention is crucial for sustainability of health care services for tinnitus. tinnitus is often disabling and can result in a considerable economic burden. identifying tinnitus interventions with stable long-term positive effects can improve health care outcomes. to investigate the durability of treatment effects over a 6-year period following internet-based cognitive behavior therapy (icbt) for tinnitus. participants were those with significant tinnitus who undertook an online tinnitus intervention. assessment of tinnitus distress and associated difficulties regarding anxiety, depression, insomnia, cognitive failures, satisfaction with life, and hearing disability was conducted. reduction in tinnitus distress was the primary outcome together with measuring the secondary outcomes of reductions in anxiety, depression, insomnia, cognitive failures, hyperacusis, hearing disability, and increases with satisfaction with life. undertaking icbt for tinnitus was associated with significant improvements with little variability over the 6-year period, with large within-group effect sizes (eg, cohen d = 1.00; 95% ci, 0.80-1.32) at 6 years postintervention. in this follow-up of a nonrandomized clinical trial, the results indicate potential for informing health care services and reducing health care costs caused by tinnitus over 6 years.
Does treatment with radioactive agents help with pain in chronic inflammatory joint disease? [SEP] tin-117m radiosynoviorthesis safely and effectively manages canine osteoarthritis with minimal radiation exposure: a narrative review. canine osteoarthritis (oa) is a major contributor to chronic pain, mobility loss, and premature euthanasia. although multimodal care is standard, many dogs experience incomplete relief, adverse events, or limited access to care. radiosynoviorthesis (rso) is a targeted ia therapy that delivers localized radiation to inflamed synovial tissue, reducing synovial effusion and alleviating joint pain. while various rso agents have been used for over 70 years in human medicine to manage inflammatory joint disease, tin-117m (sn-117m) is the first rso agent adapted for veterinary use and approved for the treatment of canine oa. sn-117m is a radionuclide emitting low-energy conversion electrons with minimal tissue penetration and, unlike systemic radiotherapeutics, sn-117m remains confined within the joint capsule and does not form radioactive metabolites. this narrative review synthesized current evidence on the clinical use of sn-117m rso in dogs, addressing therapeutic efficacy and effectiveness, safety, and caregiver radiation exposure. following a single injection for oa, prospective clinical trials report sustained improvements in objective gait analysis and caregiver-reported pain scores with benefits lasting up to 12 months. modeled and measured radiation exposures for caregivers remain below us nuclear regulatory commission limits, allowing outpatient use without isolation. long-term outcome tracking and expanded joint-specific data could help refine the use of rso in human and veterinary medicine.
Can the active ingredient acetyl salicylic acid (ASA) protect against cancer? [SEP] 
Is tick-borne tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) much milder in children than in adults? [SEP] 
Can regular exercise prevent or relieve migraine symptoms? [SEP] synergistic effects of group-based exercise to reduce loneliness and social isolation and to prevent cognitive decline among older adults with cancer. at the same time, regular physical activity and social support interventions may improve cognitive function and reduce risk of cognitive decline. in this perspective, we propose that group-based exercise may provide synergistic benefits for cognitive health by addressing both physical activity and social engagement. we present a conceptual model in which participation in group exercise promotes exercise-induced neurobiological adaptations that support cognitive function while simultaneously enhancing social connectedness. numerous studies have found evidence of the link between physical exercise and improved well-being in breast cancer patients. this study evidenced the role of regular physical exercise implemented in group settings as a psychosocial intervention that provides an added value beyond preventing and managing the side effects of pharmacological treatments. no past history of migraine. notably, regular exercise and male sex were protective against both neck pain and shoulder pain compared to females. uk clinical guidelines recommend regular physical activity for vlu management, but evidence on its efficacy in promoting healing and preventing recurrence remains limited. both home- and hospital-based exercise programmes appear to improve vlu healing rates when added to standard care, although current evidence is limited by small sample sizes, methodological variability, and lack of recurrence data.
Does less than 7h of sleep daily increase mental performance? [SEP] 
Does regular intake of extra virgin olive oil protect against coronary heart disease such as heart attack? [SEP] 
Do frequent ejaculations have a protective effect against prostate cancer? [SEP] the standards of an ultrasound examination of the prostate gland. the article discusses the principles of the proper performance of the ultrasound examination of the prostate gland. the first part presents the necessary requirements referring to the ultrasound apparatus for performing transabdominal examinations of the urinary bladder and the prostate gland as well as for transrectal examinations of the prostate gland. the paper also describes the techniques of performing both examinations together with the methods of measuring the capacity of the urinary bladder and the volume of the prostate gland. the transabdominal ultrasonography is a part of the examination of the abdominal organs and it should be performed in patients complaining of dysuric symptoms. an addition to the examination, especially when the prostate gland is enlarged, should be the measurement of the capacity of the urinary bladder and the assessment of the amount of residual urine after voiding. the indications for the endosonographic examination of the prostate gland are patological changes found in the per rectum examination, elevated concentration of the prostate-specific antigen in the blood serum, cancer and inflammations of the prostate gland if an abscess is suspected, qualification for surgery in the course of benign prostatic hyperplasia and the diagnostics of disorders of ejaculation. a standard procedure performed in case of prostate cancer for the purpose of obtaining specimens for the histopathology examination is biopsy carried out with transrectal ultrasound imaging. the paper presents the indications and techniques of performing prostate biopsy, as well as the types of biopsies together with the necessary preparation and the protection against its side effects for the patient. the second part of the paper presents the application of the ultrasound examination in benign prostatic hyperplasia, in cases of inflammation and in prostate cancer.
Do today's children have a shorter life expectancy than their parents? [SEP] the consequences of childhood overweight and obesity. researchers are only gradually becoming aware of the gravity of the risk that overweight and obesity pose for children's health. in this article stephen daniels documents the heavy toll that the obesity epidemic is taking on the health of the nation's children. he discusses both the immediate risks associated with childhood obesity and the longer-term risk that obese children and adolescents will become obese adults and suffer other health problems as a result. daniels notes that many obesity-related health conditions once thought applicable only to adults are now being seen in children and with increasing frequency. he systematically surveys the body's systems, showing how obesity in adulthood can damage each and how childhood obesity exacerbates the damage. he explains that obesity can harm the cardiovascular system and that being overweight during childhood can accelerate the development of heart disease. the processes that lead to a heart attack or stroke start in childhood and often take decades to progress to the point of overt disease. obesity in childhood, adolescence, and young adulthood may accelerate these processes. daniels notes that the possibility has even been raised that the increasing prevalence and severity of childhood obesity may reverse the modern era's steady increase in life expectancy, with today's youth on average living less healthy and ultimately shorter lives than their parents-the first such reversal in lifespan in modern history.
Does training on vibration platforms cause a noticeable buildup of muscle strength? [SEP] 
Does glucosamine prolong life? [SEP] escherichia coli nleb1, citrobacter rodentium nleb, and salmonella enterica ssek1/3 type iii effectors fatally glycosyltransfer n-acetyl glucosamine (glcnac) from udp-glcnac to arginine residues of death domain-containing proteins that regulate host inflammation, intra-bacterial proteins, and themselves, whose post-translational modification disrupts host immune functions and prolongs bacterial viability inside host cells. regulation of the urea cycle by cps1 o-glcnacylation in response to dietary restriction and aging. o-linked n-acetyl-glucosamine glycosylation (o-glcnacylation) of intracellular proteins is a dynamic process broadly implicated in age-related disease, yet it remains uncharacterized whether and how o-glcnacylation contributes to the natural aging process. here, we show that global o-glcnac levels are increased in multiple tissues of aged mice. our results identify cps1 o-glcnacylation as a key nutrient-sensing regulatory step in the urea cycle during aging and dietary restriction, implying a role for mitochondrial o-glcnacylation in nutritional regulation of longevity. among others, glycolytic inhibitors (e.g., d-allulose, d-glucosamine), hydroxycitric acid, nad o-glcnac stabilizes smad4 by inhibiting gsk-3β-mediated proteasomal degradation. o-linked β-n-acetylglucosamine (o-glcnac) is a post-translational modification which occurs on the hydroxyl group of serine or threonine residues of nucleocytoplasmic proteins. this observation was made based on the prolonged half-life of smad4 proteins. the mechanism behind this interaction was that o-glcnac impeded interactions between smad4 and gsk-3β which promote proteasomal degradation of smad4.
Do injections with Botulinum Toxin A (Botox®) help with urinary incontinence? [SEP] midurethral sling vs onabotulinumtoxina in females with urinary incontinence: the musa randomized clinical trial. to determine whether intradetrusor onabotulinumtoxina is more effective than midurethral sling for the treatment of mixed urinary incontinence in females. there was no observed difference in udi total score improvement at 6 months between the onabotulinumtoxina and midurethral sling groups in females with moderate to severe mixed urinary incontinence who previously did not respond to conservative treatments. patient perceived improvement and medication resumption rates after intradetrusor onabotulinumtoxina for idiopathic urgency urinary incontinence. a pilot prospective study to evaluate whether the bladder morphology in cystography and/or urodynamic may help predict the response to botulinum toxin a injection in neurogenic bladder refractory to anticholinergics. we assessed the efficacy of onabotulinumtoxina (botox, allergan inc., irvine, ca, usa) in patients with refractory overactive bladder (oab) after treatment for benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph). anticholinergic versus botulinum toxin a comparison trial for the treatment of bothersome urge urinary incontinence: abc trial. this trial compares the change in urgency urinary incontinence episodes over 6 months, tolerability and cost effectiveness between women receiving daily anticholinergic therapy plus a single intra-detrusor injection of saline versus a single intra-detrusor injection of 100 u of botulinum toxin a plus daily oral placebo tablets. we present the rationale and design of a randomized-controlled trial, anticholinergic versus botulinum toxin, comparison trial for the treatment of bothersome urge urinary incontinence: abc trial, conducted by the nichd-funded pelvic floor disorders network. the abc trial will help women with urgency urinary incontinence balance efficacy, side effects and cost of anticholinergic medication versus botulinum toxin intra-detrusor injection.
Can apigenin reduce cancer risk or prevent cancer progression? [SEP] persistent infection with high-risk human papillomavirus (hr-hpv), particularly hpv-16, is the main driver of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) and cervical cancer (cc). however, hr-hpv infection alone is insufficient for malignant progression and nutritional cofactors such as vitamin a deficiency, may influence cervical neoplasia progression through immune dysregulation. oxidative balance score, genetic susceptibility, and the risk of pancreatic cancer: a population-based cohort study. pancreatic cancer (pc) is one of the deadliest cancers, largely due to its prolonged asymptomatic progression. lactate-mediated cholesterol uptake promotes liver cancer progression via the scarb1-autophagy axis. metabolic reprogramming, including enhanced glycolysis and altered fatty acid metabolism, supports the proliferation of cancer cells under hypoxic stress. here, we report that lactate-induced cholesterol accumulation activates mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mtorc1) signalling under hypoxic conditions, thereby promoting hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) progression. a multidimensional strategy for identifying quality markers of radix ginseng-schisandra chinensis in the disruption of the inflammation-cancer transformation process of hepatocellular carcinoma based on metabolic regulation and chemical properties. the elimination of cervical cancer has been identified by the world health organisation as an achievable goal worldwide. an important component of cervical cancer prevention is the successful diagnosis and treatment of precancerous lesions with colposcopy in women with positive cervical screening tests.
Do generic drugs work as well as original drugs? [SEP] medication affordability might be improved by generic substitution. among the 1,135,863 e-prescriptions analysed, a generic substitution was found in only 4.81% of the packs dispensed, based on e-prescriptions issued for metformin under its originator version and 2.73% under generic drugs. discrepancies between the labels of originator and generic pharmaceutical products: implications for patient safety. as demonstrated by previous studies, many generic products have labels that are discrepant from the labels of their reference (originator) products. over 60% of the selected drugs (19, 61.3%) presented important (critical, major) label differences between originator and generic products. none of the selected drugs had fully aligned labels of originator and generic products. in this sample, smpc alignment between generic and originator medicinal products was found to be inefficient for established drugs, and could lead to the diffusion of discrepant messages to healthcare professionals and patients. although generic medicines are pharmaceutically equivalent to their brand name counterparts, generics are often viewed with distrust and perceived to be inferior to branded medicines. negative perceptions of generic pharmaceuticals may contribute to reduced treatment efficacy via enhanced primary nocebo effects, and increased nocebo side effects. although increasing evidence suggests that labeling of medicines can shape nocebo effects, interventions to improve perceptions of generics do not necessarily translate into more positive treatment outcomes.
Are animal-assisted therapies effective for mental illness? [SEP] an overview of the benefits of animal-assisted interventions in medical and therapeutic contexts for human health: cognitive mechanisms, sensory perception and welfare considerations. moreover, animal therapy for people with mental health issues, physical impairments, or autism spectrum disorders has shown social and communicative benefits. effectiveness of animal-assisted therapy for dementia patients: an evidence mapping of randomized controlled trials, systematic reviews, and meta-analyses. evidence suggests animal-assisted therapy may improve neuropsychiatric symptoms and some patient-centered outcomes in dementia, but study quality is low and heterogeneity high; findings should be interpreted cautiously and confirmed in well-designed, adequately powered trials. as mental health disorders like depression and anxiety rise, animal-assisted intervention (aai) has emerged as a promising complementary approach, recognized for its psychological benefits. the present study aims to investigate the impact of animal-assisted intervention on physiological, psychological changes and self-reported measurements. animal-assisted therapy in patients with psychotic disorders: a systematic review and meta-analysis. to synthesize the available evidence on the effects of animal-assisted therapy on core symptom dimensions (including positive, negative, and general symptoms), specific symptom domains (including depression, anhedonia, anxiety, stress) and cognitive functioning in patients with psychotic spectrum disorders. experimental follow-up studies implementing animal-assisted therapy in patients with psychotic disorders were included. compared with control conditions, patients receiving animal-assisted therapy (predominantly dog-assisted) showed significantly greater pre-post improvements in negative symptoms (smd = -0.51, 95 % ci: -0.95, -0.07; i animal-assisted therapy may help alleviate symptoms in patients with psychotic disorders, particularly by reducing negative symptoms.
Do air ions cause an improvement of asthma?? [SEP] the same levels of pure cu particles alone and the soluble components from the rifle fire pm increased neutrophil numbers but did not cause appreciable cellular damage or lung function changes when compared to the negative (saline) control. penicillamine treated rifle pm or cu, slightly reduced lung inflammation and injury but did not improve the lung function decrements. chelation of the soluble metal ions from the rifle fire pm neutralized the lung toxicity while the insoluble components induced the lung toxicity to the same degree as the rifle pm. transmembrane protein 16a (tmem16a) is associated with mucus secretion and ion transport in asthma. cam may thus improve airway mucociliary differentiation by attenuating tmem16a expression in il-13-related asthma. effects of air pollution and seasonality on the respiratory symptoms and health-related quality of life (hr-qol) of outpatients with chronic respiratory disease in ulaanbaatar: pilot study for the comparison of the cold and warm seasons. this study was performed to investigate the effects of air pollution and seasonality on the respiratory symptoms and health-related quality of life (hr-qol) of outpatients with respiratory diseases in ulaanbaatar, mongolia. asthma caused by potassium aluminium tetrafluoride: a case series. the objective of this study is to describe a case-series of potassium aluminium tetrafluoride (kalf(4))-induced occupational asthma (oa) and/or occupational rhinitis (or). no subject had a previous history of asthma.
Do smoking bans lead to fewer preterm births? [SEP] 
Does alcohol in moderate amounts prolong life? [SEP] how much alcohol is in ketamine's antidepressant action? considered together, the results should improve our understanding of the potential role that lifestyle-modifiable factors could play in saving or prolonging lives. the benefit of alcohol in moderation. small amounts of alcohol were held to be beneficial in the 19th century, but the idea died out. scientific evidence that moderate amounts prolonged life, published in 1926, was ignored. further evidence accumulated from the early 1950s but the belief that alcohol was only harmful had become so ingrained that the idea has been taken seriously only since the early 1980s. now, the evidence that small amounts reduce the risk of vascular disease by about a third and reduce total mortality in middle and old age is massive. the reduction in mortality is mainly attributable to ischaemic heart disease and cerebral thrombosis, but some other diseases may also contribute to it. the benefit is directly due to ethanol and the extra benefit attributed to wine is due to the pattern of drinking. the ageing process was associated with a slightly prolonged half-life of diazepam.
Does marijuana use reduce the risk of developing diabetes? [SEP] while this protective association noted with cannabis use could be due to the population using it rather than an effect of the cannabis itself, the findings suggest that cannabis use might have a role in reducing pvr development. cannabis use is associated with a lower risk of diabetes in chronic hepatitis c-infected patients (anrs co22 hepather cohort). in the general population, research has shown the potential benefit of cannabis use for the prevention of diabetes and related metabolic disorders. we aimed to test whether cannabis use is associated with a lower risk of diabetes in chronic hcv-infected patients. after multivariable adjustment, current (aor [95%ci]: 0.49 [0.38-0.63]) and former (0.81 [0.67-0.98], p < .001) cannabis use were both associated with a reduced odds of diabetes. the association between cannabis use and diabetes was maintained in the stratified analysis. in this large cross-sectional study of chronic hcv-infected patients, cannabis use was associated with a lower risk of diabetes independently of clinical and socio-behavioural factors. cannabis use is associated with reduced prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: a cross-sectional study. cannabis use is associated with reduced prevalence of obesity and diabetes mellitus (dm) in humans and mouse disease models. our observations suggest that cannabis use is associated with lower prevalence of nafld in patients.
Do fish oil capsules promote prostate cancer? [SEP] 
Are movement exercises useful for back pain? [SEP] aerobic exercise, dance, pilates) consistently showed positive effects on bi and pain intensity. this review looked at whether treatments that focus on the body can help people living with chronic pain. these included movement-based activities such as yoga, pilates, tai chi, dance, and aerobic exercise, as well as approaches using virtual reality or positive psychology. programs that included physical activity often helped people feel better about their bodies and reduced pain levels. a qualitative exploration of video-based motor action observation perceptions in patients with chronic low back pain and asymptomatic participants: an interpretative phenomenological analysis. yoga for musculoskeletal disorders: a review of prospective clinical studies. data highlights that yoga may help improve mobility, reduce reliance on medications, and enhance quality of life and could be considered as a complementary approach alongside conventional medical treatments. evaluation of a group pain education and exercise program for people with persistent low back pain that includes expert patient peers as mentors. dose-response relationship between moderate to vigorous physical activity and risk of back disorders: a large-scale accelerometry study. move to improve - prescribing physical activity and deprescribing paracetamol for people with low back pain: findings from a hybrid type iii feasibility study.
Is the Gynefix® contraceptive necklace as effective for contraception as the birth control pill or the "IUD"? [SEP] 
Is there an increased risk of long-term effects on the unborn child with chemotherapy starting in the 2nd trimester of pregnancy? [SEP] 
Can regular screening significantly reduce the risk of dying from prostate cancer? [SEP] three randomized controlled trials provided level 1 evidence that regular psa screening of men 50 to 74 years of age of average risk reduced metastasis and prostate cancer death at 16 to 22 years of follow-up. lowering the age for baseline psa testing to 40 to 45 years of age from 50 to 55 years of age, followed by regular screening until 70 years of age (informed by psa values and health factors), could reduce prostate cancer mortality in black men (approximately 30% relative risk reduction) without substantially increasing overdiagnosis. out of 1000 men who choose to test according to the guidelines, 36 [21-41] men will die from prostate cancer and 126 [119-133] men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer, compared with 50 [47-54] and 94 [90-98] men who do not test, respectively. australian men choosing to test with psa every two years from 50 to 69 will reduce their risk of ever dying from prostate cancer and incur a risk of overdiagnosis: for every man who avoids dying from prostate cancer, two will be overdiagnosed with prostate cancer between 50 and 69 years of age. young age on starting prostate-specific antigen testing is associated with a greater reduction in prostate cancer mortality: 24-year follow-up of the göteborg randomized population-based prostate cancer screening trial. to study the relationship between risk reduction for pc mortality and age at first psa screening. starting screening at age 55 yr approximately halved the risk of pc death compared to first psa at age 60 yr. in this study from the göteborg-1 trial, we looked at the effect of prostate-specific antigen (psa) screening in reducing men's risk of dying from prostate cancer given the age at which they begin testing. starting at a younger age reduced the risk of prostate cancer death by a greater amount. epidemiology and prevention of prostate cancer.
Can a treatment with singing bowls relieve pain? [SEP] 
Is the HIV saliva self-test, which is about to be approved in the U.S., as reliable as a laboratory test or a rapid test at the doctor's office? [SEP] the primary objective was to determine whether using a rapid molecular point of care test (mpoc) reduces antibiotic prescription rates in children 3 to <18 years of age with febrile tonsillopharyngitis. a positive test result in the mpoc group was observed in 67.1% (n = 471/702) and 65.8% (n = 194/295) in the standard care (sc) control group (which had optional rapid antigen testing). for their use case, we recommend another model due to the lower false positive rate and higher accuracy compared with other models, which in our test shows a rate of only 0.88% and 95.68%, demonstrating the feasibility of the research. increasing access and uptake of sars-cov-2 at-home tests using a community-engaged approach. we investigated whether a community-engaged approach could be used to distribute free, at-home, rapid sars-cov-2 tests to underserved populations. minors versus adults were more likely to test if they had close contact with someone who was confirmed positive (or = 1.7, 95 % ci = 1.0-3.0), whereas asian (or = 4.1, 95 % ci = 1.2-13.7) and hispanic/latino/spanish (or = 2.5, 95 % ci = 1.0-6.6) versus white individuals were more likely to test if they had a positive household member. there is a global unmet need for rapid and cost-effective prognostic and diagnostic tools that can be used at the bedside or in the doctor's office to reduce the impact of serious disease. the technology can implement many similar assay panels and hence has the potential to revolutionize low-cost, rapid, point-of-care testing. association between rapid antigen detection tests and antibiotics for acute pharyngitis in japan: a retrospective observational study. clinical impact of rapid point-of-care pcr influenza testing in an urgent care setting: a single-center study.
What are the advantages and disadvantages of vaccinating infants simultaneously with the usual six-dose vaccine (against diphtheria, tetanus, polio, pertussis, hepatitis B, and Haemophilus influenzae B) and a pneumococcal vaccine? (Reader inquiry) [SEP] 
Can phthalates cause diabetes? [SEP] exploring the mechanisms of diethyl phthalate-induced diabetic nephropathy through integrated network toxicology, machine learning, and experimental validation. phthalate plasticizers, especially diethyl phthalate (dep), are linked to metabolic disorders, while their precise role and mechanism in diabetic nephropathy (dn) pathogenesis remain unclear. collectively, environmental phthalate exposure exacerbates dn progression via disrupting lipid metabolism, activating inflammatory signaling, and promoting renal cell apoptosis, with lck and hpgds as promising diagnostic biomarkers for dn. platelet mitochondrial dna methylation mediates the association of bisphenol, phthalate, and paraben exposures with type 2 diabetes mellitus: an exploratory nested case-control study. prenatal phthalate exposure and neurodevelopmental delay in early childhood (1 to 3 years): an environmental influences on child health outcomes (echo) study. phthalates are widely used in consumer products and are recognized as endocrine disruptors. prenatal exposure to phthalates has been associated with various adverse health outcomes, including preterm birth and impaired fetal growth, and growing attention is being paid to their potential impact on child neurodevelopment. higher prenatal exposure to certain phthalates was associated with higher odds of ndd across multiple domains, including motor and problem-solving skills, with evidence of effect modification by child sex. phthalates, a class of plasticizers, are known endocrine-disrupting chemicals that can negatively impact reproduction and development, including placental development and function. additionally, phthalates and bisphenols affected cell growth, lipid and energy metabolism, and vascular functions, while toxic metals were linked to apoptosis regulation, dna repair, insulin regulation, and glucose uptake.
Can exercise prevent premature deaths from heart attacks, strokes, heart failure, and pre-diabetes as effectively as medication? [SEP] 
Is the success of conventional treatment of a herniated disc equivalent to that of disc surgery? [SEP] 
Does regular use of sleeping pills promote the risk of death or cancer? [SEP] despite distinct pathologies between ad and cancer, shared dysregulation of the pi3k-akt-mtor signaling pathway promotes both disease states. consequently, mtor-modulating compounds, demonstrating promising results in oncology, present a viable strategy to potentially halt or reverse ad progression. this review discusses the potential application of 37 mtor pathway-modulating compounds, many originally developed for cancer treatment, given their shared molecular targets. this framework reveals a fundamental trade-off, as the structural novelty and pleiotropic effects of natural products are often counterbalanced by poor pharmacokinetics, whereas the pharmacological precision of synthetic compounds is frequently limited by compensatory feedback loops. no randomised trials exist. machine learning and deep learning techniques, including support vector machines, random forests, convolutional neural networks, and transformer-based models, are examined for their roles in feature extraction, noise reduction, and multi-analyte prediction from complex biological samples. this study examined longitudinal associations between spirituality and quality of life (qol) in women newly diagnosed with breast cancer and undergoing chemotherapy at a large tertiary cancer center. prognostic and predict value of peripheral blood circulating tumor cells programmed death-ligand 1 expression and f-18-fluorodeoxyglucose metabolic parameters in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors. to investigate the concordance and correlation between programmed death-ligand 1 (pd-l1) expression in tumor tissue and circulating tumor cells (ctcs), explore the intrinsic link between epithelial-mesenchymal transition (emt) and pd-l1 expression in ctcs, and examine the predictive value of fdg metabolic parameters, ctcs and their pd-l1 expression for early tumor response and long-term prognosis in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) receiving immune checkpoint inhibitor (ici) monotherapy or ici combined with chemotherapy as first-line treatment. micrornas (mirnas) have been proposed as diagnostic biomarkers of asbestos-related cancers, but their role in asbestos-related interstitial lung diseases (ilds) is unknown.
Does increased time outdoors inhibit myopia in children? [SEP] influence of periodic vs continuous daily bright light exposure on development of experimental myopia in the chick. in children, time spent outdoors has a protective effect against myopia development. in animal models, bright light reduces the development of experimental myopia. our results suggest that future light-based myopia therapies in humans may be more effective if light levels are increased over the whole day, rather than through short periods of bright light exposure. time outdoors and the prevention of myopia. recent epidemiological evidence suggests that children who spend more time outdoors are less likely to be, or to become myopic, irrespective of how much near work they do, or whether their parents are myopic. it is currently uncertain if time outdoors also blocks progression of myopia. it has been suggested that the mechanism of the protective effect of time outdoors involves light-stimulated release of dopamine from the retina, since increased dopamine release appears to inhibit increased axial elongation, which is the structural basis of myopia. there are some inconsistencies in the evidence, most notably the limited inhibition by bright light under laboratory conditions of lens-induced myopia in monkeys, but other proposed mechanisms possibly associated with time outdoors such as relaxed accommodation, more uniform dioptric space, increased pupil constriction, exposure to uv light, changes in the spectral composition of visible light, or increased physical activity have little epidemiological or experimental support. irrespective of the mechanisms involved, clinical trials are now underway to reduce the development of myopia in children by increasing the amount of time they spend outdoors.
Can over-the-counter combination medications help with tension headache and migraine better than medications containing only single active ingredients? [SEP] 
Does hyperthermia treatment support chemotherapy in fighting cancer? (anonymous request with link to the Standard article) [SEP] 
Can stress promote dementia? [SEP] a brief telehealth brain health program for family caregivers of persons living with dementia: the brain health for me family caregivers of persons living with dementia experience high stress, elevated rates of depression and anxiety, and an increased risk of cognitive decline compared to non-caregivers. alzheimer's disease (ad) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disorder globally and a leading cause of disability and death among the elderly. shared mechanistic pathways through which environmental pollutants promote neurodegeneration are discussed, including neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, blood-brain barrier disruption, tau kinase dysregulation, epigenetic reprogramming, and gut-brain axis dysbiosis. cognitive impairment is a major public health concern among older adults. the association between pil and cognitive impairment was largely mediated by lower perceived stress and higher physical activity (61%), rendering the direct effect non-significant. a growing body of evidence links loneliness to increased risk of cardiovascular disease, cognitive decline, and dementia; however, these domains have often been studied in parallel. current pathogenic models primarily focus on the accumulation of amyloid-β (aβ) and tau proteins; however, these do not fully explain the extensive neuroinflammation, metabolic dysfunction, and impaired protein homeostasis observed in affected individuals. in addition, ongoing metabolic stress-including depletion of nad⁺ and atp, oxidative damage, and mitochondrial dysfunction can further reinforce these pathological processes, contributing to a self-sustaining cycle of inflammation and metabolic imbalance. molecular mechanisms underlying alzheimer's disease pathogenesis: comprehensive overview. alzheimer's disease (ad) is a progressive, multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder ranking first as cause of dementia in the elderly.
Are children conceived in May more likely to be born prematurely than children conceived in other months? [SEP] 
Does osteopathy work? [SEP] osteoporosis is a systemic metabolic disease characterized by disrupted homeostasis between osteoclast-mediated bone resorption and osteoblast-mediated bone formation. accumulating evidence indicates that chronic systemic pathological states can exert sustained effects on osteo-immune homeostasis. however, how these disturbances promote immune-mediated osteoclast dysregulation remains unclear. osteoarthritis (oa) is a frequently diagnosed joint disease. current treatments for oa act to reduce inflammation and lubricate joints but barely halt oa progression and joint damage. specifically, bone tissue-resident macrophages (trms) play a critical role in this process. however, the functional contributions and molecular mechanisms of specific trm subsets during bone repair remain poorly understood. in cia rats, kae-nps accumulated in inflamed joints, reduced swelling, cartilage damage, and bone erosion. osteopathic treatment of postprandial cardiovascular symptoms suggestive of altered autonomic regulation: a case report. a structured osteopathic manipulative treatment (omt) protocol was applied over four weeks, targeting regions associated with vagal pathways.
Does tocilizumab specifically help children with rheumatoid arthritis (juvenile idiopathic arthritis) ? [SEP] 
Does the Toxoplasma gondii parasite affect suicide rates? [SEP] latent infection, inflammatory markers and suicide attempt history in depressive disorders. numerous reports have described increased rates of exposure to toxoplasma gondii levels in individuals with a history of suicide attempts in comparison with well controls, or psychiatrically ill individuals, with no suicide attempt history. the present study compared 96 patients with an active depressive disorder and a history of at least two suicide attempts to 126 depressed patients with no history of suicide attempts by igg and igm levels of toxoplasma gondii and cytomegalovirus (cmv). toxoplasma gondii igm levels were higher, and seropositivity more likely, in the suicide attempt group. cmv igg levels were also higher among suicide attempters. several of these immunoglobulin measures were more robustly associated with the number of suicide attempts than with the dichotomy of suicide attempter and non-attempter. these two antibody levels were also additive in their association with suicide attempter status. il_1a levels were lower in suicide attempters and correlated negatively with levels of antibodies to toxoplasma gondii and cmv. these results indicate that exposure to common infectious agents such as toxoplasma gondii and cmv are associated with increased risk of suicide attempts but the mechanism of association does not appear to involve the activation of cytokines. elucidation of the mechanisms which define the relationship between infections and suicide attempts may lead to new methods for the prediction and prevention of suicide attempts.
Is Exemestane better than other hormone-altering drugs for reducing the risk of breast cancer or treating it? [SEP] four randomized controlled trials in pah provide (indirect) evidence on efficacy and safety of activin signaling inhibitor, sotatercept in ssc-pah. status epilepticus (se) often requires escalating antiseizure medication (asm) therapy, increasing risks of hypotension, prolonged ventilation, and metabolic complications. among 77 patients (17 raas inhibitor exposed, 60 non-raas inhibitor), raas inhibitor exposure was associated with a lower asm burden (unadjusted irr = 0.45; 95% confidence interval 0.24-0.83,  raas inhibitor exposure was associated with lower asm utilization in critically ill patients with se, with consistent direction across adjusted models. we aimed to assess 6-week cryo-compression on pain (including oxycodone consumption), function, and quality of life (qol) at 6 weeks following uka compared with standard care. oxycodone consumption was lower in the cryo-compression group, although absolute differences were small. improving facial scar outcomes: an evidence-based update. the evidence base for facial scar management continues to expand, with recent meta-analyses, and rcts improving our understanding of both conservative and surgical treatment strategies. while established therapies are further validated, emerging combination approaches and novel adjuncts are broadening the therapeutic treatment repertoire. esophageal cancer (ec) is a highly fatal malignancy for which radiotherapy plays a critical role in treatment. it is a feasible and promising art methods to improve the management of ec patients without additional patients appoints and resources.
Does a newly approved contraceptive pill with the active ingredient combination nomegestrol acetate and 17ß-estradiol have fewer undesirable side effects than other birth control pills? [SEP] 
Does PrEP reduce the risk of HIV infection? [SEP] backgroundpre-exposure prophylaxis (prep) is highly effective in preventing human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) transmission, particularly for individuals at increased risk. hiv risk perception and prep usepre-exposure prophylaxis (prep) is a highly effective medicine that helps prevent human immunodeficiency virus (hiv). this study looked at what people think and feel about their risk of getting hiv, and how those thoughts shape their decision to take prep. we found that people were more likely to start prep when they felt personally at risk of hiv, for example due to a partner's unfaithfulness or past traumatic experiences. pre-exposure prophylaxis (prep) is highly effective for preventing hiv, but out-of-pocket costs represent a critical barrier to uptake. to date, most research has focused on pre-exposure prophylaxis (prep), a proactive prevention approach using tablets or injectable agents in hiv-negative individuals to prevent infection, which may not meet all women’s needs. tenofovir-sparing antiretroviral therapy (art) and pre-exposure prophylaxis (prep) for human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) are increasingly used. while vaccines were preferred for convenience and minimal side effects, individual perceived hiv risk was a main motivation for adhering to prep. in an oral preexposure prophylaxis (prep) study offering choice between daily and on-demand prep, hiv incidence was very low with either regimen. although daily oral pre-exposure prophylaxis (prep) is highly effective for preventing hiv acquisition, its effectiveness depends on achieving and maintaining prevention-effective adherence (ie, four or more doses per week).
Does exercise, a restricted diet, or both together help prevent excessive weight gain during pregnancy? [SEP] this case illustrates the challenges in the management of a paediatric patient with jlns, highlighting the impact of weight gain on beta-blocker dosing and subcutaneous implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (s-icd) efficacy. lifestyle modifications, including regular exercise and a heart-healthy diet, are crucial to prevent obesity and optimize long-term outcomes. effect of parent attendance at an adult commercial weight management programme on their children. quantitative survey data were summarised descriptively using percentages to identify associations of both parental weight management motivating factors and child weight concerns with parent weight category. weight-related adverse experiences during the parents' lives were an important driver to address their child's weight, as were health concerns. lifestyle and metabolic risk factor optimization, smoking cessation, optimizing body weight, a healthy diet and exercise, should be strongly advised in all icao patients (60/60; 100%). loss of function through gene knockout or post-natal blockade generally lowers muscle oxidative capacity and increases fatigability. time-restricted eating in masld: the imperative to preserve muscle mass and prevent weight cycling for sustainable clinical benefit. time-restricted eating (tre) and calorie restriction (cr) are effective lifestyle interventions for metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (masld). masld interventions should integrate muscle-preserving strategies-resistance exercise, adequate protein intake-and long-term weight maintenance support.
Does taking antibiotics for acute sinusitis speed up the healing of the infection? [SEP] 
Does colonoscopy reduce mortality from colorectal cancer? [SEP] long-term effectiveness of endoscopic and stool-based colorectal cancer screening strategies: a systematic review and network meta-analysis. long-term clinical trial evidence comparing colonoscopy, sigmoidoscopy, and stool tests for colorectal cancer screening colorectal cancer is common and can be life-threatening, but screening can help prevent it or find it early. in the invitation-based analyses, colonoscopy and sigmoidoscopy reduced new colorectal cancer cases, while sigmoidoscopy and guaiac-based fecal occult blood test reduced colorectal cancer deaths. among people who completed screening, colonoscopy and sigmoidoscopy showed greater reductions in colorectal cancer and its deaths, but these findings should be interpreted cautiously. colonoscopy and risk-reducing strategies substantially reduce morbidity and mortality; however, international and national guidelines vary widely in scope, recommended surveillance modalities, timing, intervals, and evidence grading. colorectal cancer (crc) is a leading cause of cancer incidence and mortality in the united states, with rates recently increasing among adults younger than 65 years. colonoscopy plays a crucial role in preventing the malignant transformation of colorectal polyps, with early diagnosis and detection of colorectal cancer being effective approaches to reducing incidence and mortality rates among patients. early screening such as colonoscopy has been demonstrated to reduce both crc incidence and mortality. colorectal cancer (crc) screening reduces mortality, yet uptake varies by screening modality, provider type, and clinical setting. screening for success: turning the tables on colon cancer before it strikes.
Do nicotine replacement products like nicotine gum or nicotine patches help with long-term smoking cessation? [SEP] efficacy of combined nicotine replacement therapy (nrt) and bupropion compared to bupropion alone for smoking cessation: a systematic review and meta-analysis. both bupropion and nrt help achieve smoking cessation. electronic cigarettes for smoking cessation. to examine the safety, tolerability, and effectiveness of ec for helping people who smoke tobacco achieve long-term smoking abstinence, in comparison to non-nicotine ec, other smoking cessation treatments, and no treatment. nicotine ec result in increased quit rates compared to nicotine replacement therapy (nrt) (high-certainty evidence) (rr 1.55, 95% ci 1.28 to 1.88; i² = 0%; 9 studies, 2703 participants). there is high-certainty evidence that nicotine ec increase quit rates compared to nrt, and moderate-certainty evidence that they probably increase quit rates compared to ec without nicotine. electronic cigarettes for smoking cessation. nicotine ec results in increased quit rates compared to nicotine replacement therapy (nrt) (high-certainty evidence) (rr 1.59, 95% ci 1.30 to 1.93; i there is high-certainty evidence that ecs with nicotine increase quit rates compared to nrt and moderate-certainty evidence that they increase quit rates compared to ecs without nicotine. although safe and efficient smoking cessation pharmacotherapies such as nicotine replacement products and the medications varenicline and bupropion are available, long-term abstinence rates remain low and new approaches to help smokers successfully quit smoking are needed. these products can deliver nicotine without combustion of tobacco and might thus present an alternative to the currently available smoking cessation methods if they prove able to help smokers quit smoking conventional cigarettes while decreasing their exposure to toxicants.
Is short, high-intensity training equally effective as longer, moderate-intensity training? [SEP] 
Do behavioral therapy methods help with specific fears (phobias) such as fear of spiders? [SEP] automated app-based augmented reality cognitive behavioral therapy for spider phobia: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial. fear of spiders, or arachnophobia, is one of the most common specific phobias. this study will use a randomized controlled trial design to investigate whether zerophobia: arachnophobia, a 6-week augmented reality exposure therapy smartphone self-help application, can effectively reduce spider phobia symptoms. our study will improve our understanding of the efficacy and feasibility of providing exposure therapy for spider phobia using an augmented reality self-help application, with the intention of making mental health care more accessible. gamified, automated virtual reality exposure therapy for fear of spiders: a single-subject trial under simulated real-world conditions. self-rated fear of spiders and quality of life served as outcome measures, measured twice before, and one and two weeks after treatment, and at a six-month follow-up. an automated vret intervention for fear of spiders showed equivalent effects on phobia symptoms under effectiveness conditions as previously reported under efficacy conditions. attention bias modification in specific fears: spiders versus snakes. it has been successful in reducing attention biases and anxious symptoms in social anxiety and generalized anxiety, but not yet in specific fears and phobias. in experiment 1, students with fear of spiders were trained.
Can honey accelerate the healing of second degree burns with pain, redness and blisters? [SEP] 
Does honey work better than other wound treatments for chronic wounds (open leg, diabetic foot)? [SEP] 
Do acupuncture or related smoking cessation methods help you stay smoke-free for at least 6 months? [SEP] acupuncture interventions, particularly fire needling, cpblc, fu's subcutaneous needling, plum-blossom needle, multi-acupuncture and multi-acupuncture + pharmacotherapy, showed the most robust benefits in improving effective rate, reducing visual analog scale (vas) scores, and decreasing adverse reactions in phn treatment. acupuncture could be a valuable adjunct to standard phn treatment, offering benefits in overall efficacy, pain management and treatment safety. acupuncture for post-chemoradiotherapy complications in lung cancer with bone metastasis: a case report and literature review. marked symptomatic improvement was observed following three courses of acupuncture treatment. acupuncture has shown good therapeutic potential in post-stroke spasticity (pss). acupuncture for persistent asthma: protocol for a randomized, sham-controlled trial with neuroimaging. although acupuncture has shown therapeutic potential for asthma, its clinical application is limited by insufficient high-quality evidence and an incomplete understanding of its neurophysiological mechanisms. this study aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of acupuncture in patients with persistent asthma and to further investigate its central mechanisms. this randomized controlled trial aims to evaluate the clinical efficacy and central neural mechanisms of acupuncture in patients with persistent asthma. by elucidating the underlying neuroregulatory mechanisms, this study may contribute to a more mechanism-informed and optimized application of acupuncture in asthma management.
Do gastrointestinal surgeries (bariatric surgeries) improve symptoms of type 2 diabetes? [SEP] postoperatively, the strongest evidence from randomized controlled trials showed that liraglutide and semaglutide achieved additional weight loss and improved glycemic control in patients with weight regain, insufficient weight loss, or persistent diabetes after bariatric surgery, potentially lowering the need for revisional procedures. gut microbiota responses to bariatric surgery are associated with metabolic outcomes and type 2 diabetes remission. bariatric surgeries, such as roux-en-y gastric bypass (rygb) and sleeve gastrectomy (sg), improve obesity and type 2 diabetes (t2d). the long-term effects of metabolic bariatric surgery (mbs) on patient-centred outcomes such as mental health and quality of life (qol) may enhance the management of obesity and the application of mbs. adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus and obesity were randomised 1:1 to undergo laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (sg) or silastic ring roux-en-y gastric bypass (sr-rygb). weight loss independent outcomes in type 2 diabetes mellitus and other metabolic comorbidities after roux-en-y gastric bypass and sleeve gastrectomy. studies show equal or better resolution of type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2d) and other metabolic outcomes after roux-en-y gastric bypass (rygb) compared to sleeve gastrectomy (sg), but it is unclear whether this is related only to the higher weight loss after rygb, or if there are weight-loss-independent factors. type 2 diabetes remission and metabolic outcomes 5 years after roux-en-y gastric bypass in young vs older adults: a multicentre matched cohort study. timely metabolic surgery improves glycaemic control and reduces cardiovascular risk for patients with type 2 diabetes. in people with type 2 diabetes and obesity, roux-en-y gastric bypass (rygb) can induce remission of diabetes.
Is there a connection between ADHD and neurodermatitis? [SEP] 
Can injections with the enzyme collagenase straighten fingers bent by Dupuytren's disease without surgery? (Reader inquiry) [SEP] 
Is it harmful to health to eat apple cores with the apple? [SEP] 
Can taking selenium prevent cancer? [SEP] in addition, the presence of essential elements, such as selenium (se), zinc (zn), iron (fe), and manganese (mn) in tolerable low concentrations was revealed to have anti-cancer properties, while exposure to high concentrations has detrimental health effects. selenium as a bioactive micronutrient in the human diet and its cancer chemopreventive activity. moreover, the biological activity of selenium, which it performs mainly through selenoproteins, is discussed. thus, the last part of the article discusses the impact of selenium on cancer risk based on clinical trials (including npc and select), systematic reviews, and meta-analyses. additionally, this review discusses the possible mechanisms of selenium action that prevent cancer development. selenium and breast cancer risk: focus on cellular and molecular mechanisms. selenium (se) is a micronutrient with promising breast cancer prevention and treatment potential. health risk assessment of environmental selenium: emerging evidence and challenges (review). this new evidence comes from environmental studies, carried out in populations characterized by abnormally high or low selenium intakes, and from high-quality and large randomized controlled trials with selenium recently carried out in the us and in other countries. these trials have consistently shown no beneficial effect on cancer and cardiovascular risk, and have yielded indications of unexpected toxic effects of selenium exposure.
Does mesotherapy help against pain? [SEP] 
Do general health checkups lead to longer life? [SEP] regular check-ups during the 12 months of treatment showed that the applied agents stabilized the patient's condition, alleviated more severe and acute skin changes, and slowed down further exacerbation of symptoms. they are frequently effective in alleviating joint symptoms, but, on the other hand, high doses of corticosteroids can worsen acne lesions (6). a longer lasting improvement of symptoms has been achieved in a number of cases with both types of agents. consequently, such efforts and breakthroughs would lead to decreased mortality and improved quality of life for patients suffering from this debilitating disease. thus, continuous and comprehensive research is vital for ensuring adequate care of patients with papa syndrome. the results indicate the potential of school-based programs to improve life outcomes for adolescent mothers and their children. whereas prenatal services to pregnant adolescents are designed to optimize the obstetrical outcomes, research has indicated that adolescent mothers involved in postnatal programs show a substantial decrease in subsequent pregnancy rates, a decrease which may continue for years beyond actual program involvement. in a study at the polly t. mccabe center, an alternate public school for pregnant students in new haven, connecticut, students who were allowed to remain at least 7 weeks postnatally were almost 3 times less likely to have another baby within the next 2 years than students who were not allowed to remain so long. medical records were collected for the period from the first prenatal checkup until the first baby was 6-years-old. these findings indicate that the effectiveness of school programs for pregnant adolescents may be greatly enhanced and lead to a longterm improvement in the young mothers' chances for a self-sufficient life if they are extended into the postpartum period, which is an especially optimum time for intervention.
Can dementia be prevented? [SEP] higher percentage of grass may reduce dementia risk. with the acceleration of population aging, dementia has become a major public health challenge. this study supports the inclusion of vegetarian diets patterns in primary prevention strategies for dementia and highlights their particular application value in specific vulnerable populations. infection and increased risk of incident dementia: the role of biological aging. our findings highlight the importance of infection prevention and anti-aging interventions as potential strategies for dementia prevention, and underscore the need to consider apoe ε4 carrier status and age stratification when designing such strategies. of 13 subgroup analyses, with dietary intervention, there was a trend for lower dementia mortality in younger women (50-59 y, hr: 0.73, 95% ci: 0.44-1.21; 60-69 y, hr: 0.85, 95% ci: 0.72-1.01; 70-79 y, hr: 1.06, 95% ci: 0.91-1.23; p-trend 0.03). a low-fat eating pattern did not reduce dementia mortality in postmenopausal women. by leveraging sleep-related vagal activity, this approach could potentially delay or prevent the progression of mci to ad and dementia. dementia and cognitive decline among older adults are increasingly considered as a significant health burden with a high level of personal, societal, and economic implications. understanding the influence of lifestyle factors and potential lifestyle modifications on the risk and progression of dementia may aid in offering a non-pharmacological approach to reducing this public health challenge.
Does the plant pigment beta-carotene protect against cancer? [SEP] β-carotene is biologically active compound widely distributed in plants. β-carotene is an orange carotenoid often found in leaves as well as in fruits, flowers, and roots. in plants, β-carotene functions as an antenna pigment and antioxidant, providing protection against photooxidative damage caused by strong uv-b light. in humans, β-carotene acts as a precursor of vitamin a, prevents skin damage by solar radiation, and protects against several types of cancer such as oral, colon and prostate. several statistical investigations indicated an association between the use of carotenoids in diets and a decreased incidence of cancer types, suggesting the antioxidant properties of these compounds as an important factor in the scope of the studies against oxidative stress. carotenoids have also been associated with protective effects against cancer and other chronic diseases. serum carotenoids and breast cancer. carotenoids are pigments that are present in most plants and have known antioxidant properties. there was an evident increase in the risk of breast cancer for decreasing beta-carotene, lutein, alpha-carotene, and beta-cryptoxanthin. the risk of breast cancer approximately doubled among subjects with blood levels of beta-carotene at the lowest quartile, as compared with those at the highest quartile (odds ratio = 2.21; 95% confidence interval (ci): 1.29, 3.79).
Can vitamin supplements protect against life-threatening diseases such as cancer or cardiovascular disease? [SEP] role of nutritional interventions to reduce cardiometabolic disease burden in the community. cardiovascular disease (cvd) is the leading global cause of death and disability, with most disability-adjusted life-years linked to modifiable risk factors. nutrition is a scalable intervention that influences multiple cardiometabolic pathways. this review is timely because recent scientific statements and global policy frameworks highlight the need to prioritize dietary strategies in community settings to reduce cvd burden and promote equity. dietary patterns such as the mediterranean and dash diets have demonstrated improvements in blood pressure, lipid profiles, and inflammation. community-based nutritional interventions reduce cardiometabolic risk and promote equity. evidence supports their capacity to shift norms, improve diets, and sustain long-term reductions in cvd burden. cigarette smoking (cs) is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease through chronic inflammation. these findings reveal that tobacco's cardiovascular toxicity extends beyond inhalation, implicating oral exposure as a driver of systemic inflammation and atherogenesis. heart failure is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide, particularly among the growing elderly population.
Is it true that lowering cholesterol does not reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] dyslipidaemia and cancer treatments both increase atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd) risk; yet, most risk prediction scores for ascvd do not include important cancer factors and thus underestimate true ascvd. a range of lipid-lowering therapies can be used in cancer patients to manage cholesterol and triglycerides but of these, reliable data only exist for statins and ezetimibe for managing low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and fibrates and omega 3 fish oils for hypertriglyceridaemia. there are no robust randomized controlled trials conducted in cancer patients for reduction of adverse cardiovascular events and therefore current recommendations have been extrapolated from non-cancer trials. statins, originally developed as lipid-lowering agents, have effects that extend well beyond cholesterol. in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease and its progressive form, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis, alcohol-associated liver disease, and chronic viral hepatitis (hbv and hcv), statin exposure is safe and associated with slower disease progression, fewer episodes of decompensation, and lower incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma. sustainable and effective lipid-lowering management: prevention strategies from the bring-up prevention study. many people who have already had heart problems do not fully follow medical guidelines to prevent another event. our results show that studies aimed at helping doctors follow prevention guidelines more closely can quickly lead to better cholesterol control. standard ldl-c equations systematically underestimate true levels in medication-treated diabetes patients, with errors greatest in combination therapy. cf reduced glucose and total cholesterol levels, whereas cfsf lowered total cholesterol and triglycerides.
Do static magnets help against pain? [SEP] 
Does hypnosis help with chronic bowel problems? [SEP] disseminating hypnosis to health care settings: applying the re-aim framework. hypnosis is a brief intervention ready for wider dissemination in medical contexts. overall, hypnosis remains underused despite evidence supporting its beneficial clinical impact. this review will evaluate the evidence supporting hypnosis for dissemination using guidelines formulated by glasgow and colleagues (1999). in medical settings, hypnosis is capable of helping a diverse range of individuals with a wide variety of problems. there is evidence supporting the use of hypnosis for chronic pain, acute pain and emotional distress arising from medical procedures and conditions, cancer treatment-related side-effects and irritable bowel syndrome. although hypnosis is currently not a part of mainstream clinical practices, evidence suggests that patients and healthcare providers are open to trying hypnosis, and may become more so when educated about what hypnosis can do. hypnosis is a brief intervention capable of being administered effectively by healthcare providers. given the low resource needs of hypnosis, opportunities for reimbursement, and the ability of the intervention to potentially help medical settings reduce costs, the intervention has the qualities necessary to be integrated into routine care in a self-sustaining way in medical settings. in sum, hypnosis is a promising candidate for further dissemination.
Is combined hormone therapy with estrogen and progestin safe for women in late menopause (after the last menstrual period)? [SEP] 
Can negative expectancy reduce the effect of pain medications? [SEP] primary outcomes are suicidal ideation and mental pain. meta-analysis of the placebo response in chronic and episodic migraine: insights from migraine preventive drug trials. randomized, well-controlled trials are the gold-standard for evaluating novel therapies, but they often fail to fully account for the placebo response, particularly in pain-related conditions such as migraine, where subjective improvement is common in placebo groups. placebo responses were consistently higher in subjects who had not used prior preventive medications, african americans, and participants enrolled in north america. the impact of health beliefs on treatment decision conflict through treatment expectations mediation in patients with lumbar disc herniation. similarly, treatment expectations exhibited a moderate inverse relationship with decision conflict (r = - 0.322, p < 0.001). this study found that health beliefs and treatment expectations influence the treatment decisions of patients with lumbar disc herniation (ldh) and reduce decision conflict. optimising preoperative expectations to reduce postoperative pain and disability in total hip arthroplasty: a study protocol for a randomised controlled trial. positive treatment expectations have shown promise in enhancing outcomes, especially in pain management. we will examine their separate and combined effects on preoperative expectations, negative emotions, postoperative pain, inflammation and function during recovery up to 12 months postoperatively.
Is sex as good an endurance workout as running? [SEP] 
Does processed red meat (sausages, ham, bacon) increase the risk of cardiovascular disease??? [SEP] accumulating evidence links excessive consumption of processed meat with an increased risk of obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, and some cancers. potential health hazards of eating red meat. processed red meat (ham, sausages, bacon, frankfurters, salami, etc.) at the same time, there has been growing evidence that high consumption of red meat, especially of processed meat, may be associated with an increased risk of several major chronic diseases. here, a comprehensive summary is provided of the accumulated evidence based on prospective cohort studies regarding the potential adverse health effects of red meat consumption on major chronic diseases, such as diabetes, coronary heart disease, heart failure, stroke and cancer at several sites, and mortality. processed meat: the real villain? hence, high consumption of processed foods may lead to an increased intake of saturated fats, cholesterol, salt, nitrite, haem iron, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, and, depending upon the chosen food preparation method, also heterocyclic amines. several large cohort studies have shown that a high consumption of processed (red) meat is related to increased overall and cause-specific mortality. a meta-analysis of nine cohort studies observed a higher mortality among high consumers of processed red meat (relative risk (rr) = 1·23; 95 % ci 1·17, 1·28, top v. bottom consumption category), but not unprocessed red meat (rr = 1·10; 95 % ci 0·98, 1·22). all studies argue that plausible mechanisms are available linking processed meat consumption and risk of chronic diseases such as cvd, diabetes mellitus or some types of cancer.
Does psychotherapy help with burnout? [SEP] burnout and poor well-being are serious problems in the workforce all over the world. therefore, addressing burnout is essential for enhancing academic staff well-being. if the intervention proves successful, it may serve as an important tool for improving academics' well-being, working life skills, and engagement by understanding how this intervention can help academic staff members with different initial burnout levels. burnout and coping strategies among paediatric oncologists: a scoping review. burnout in paediatric oncology is a multifaceted phenomenon shaped by personal, ethical, and organisational factors. digital health interventions for occupational burnout in healthcare professionals: a multi-site randomised non-inferiority trial. occupational burnout affects between 11 % and 30 % of healthcare professionals and is associated with staff sickness, job turnover, increased costs and poorer quality of care. this study aimed to compare the effects of two theoretically distinctive interventions for burnout in healthcare professionals. participants were randomly assigned to digital health interventions based on cognitive behavioural therapy (cbt; n = 227) or job crafting (jc; n = 238), each of which lasted 6-weeks and involved participation in weekly webinars (1hr) supplemented by online coping skills modules. brief digital health interventions can help to improve occupational burnout and well-being in healthcare professionals.
Can vitamin and nutrient supplements prevent the eye disease age-related macular degeneration? [SEP] this open prospective study aimed to evaluate the dynamics of progression of early and intermediate age-related macular degeneration (amd) against the background of continuous use of the nutraceutical formula areds2, which includes omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (pufas), vitamin d, resveratrol, and photobiomodulation (pbm), over a 5-year follow-up in patients from ukraine and moldova. age-related macular degeneration (amd) remains a major cause of vision impairment among older adults globally. one of the few interventions with scientific backing is the areds2 micronutrient formula, which has demonstrated an ability to slow disease progression in patients with intermediate amd.this investigation set out to systematically assess over-the-counter supplements in the uk that are promoted for macular support, measuring how closely their contents align with the evidence-based areds2 formulation. adherence and awareness of patients with age-related macular degeneration to areds 2 recommended nutritional supplements. the age-related eye disease study 2 (areds 2) conclusively demonstrated the advantages of vitamin and mineral supplementation in either preventing or slowing down the progression of amd. nad+ and niacin supplementation as possible treatments for glaucoma and age-related macular degeneration: a narrative review. [nutrition and age-related macular degeneration]. antioxidant vitamin and mineral supplements for slowing the progression of age-related macular degeneration. dietary nutrient intake and cognitive function in the age-related eye disease studies 1 and 2. observational analyses of participants (n = 6334) in two randomized trials of nutritional supplements for age-related macular degeneration: age-related eye disease study (areds) and areds2.
Can they delay the progression of eye disease? [SEP] diabetic retinopathy (dr) is a leading cause of vision loss in working-age adults. intracellular oxidative stress is associated with enhanced autophagic activity in young corneal endothelial cells, whereas progressive endothelial cell loss with aging is accompanied by alterations in autophagy-related processes. these findings suggest that maintenance of lipid homeostasis through autophagy-related pathways may play an important role in delaying age-related corneal endothelial dysfunction. strategies for the prevention and control of complications of pathological myopia: a systematic review of research progress from axial control to target organ protection. this review provides an in-depth analysis of the latest evidence and efficacy of pharmacological interventions (such as low-concentration atropine), optical interventions (such as specially designed frame glasses and orthokeratology lenses), behavioral interventions, and emerging targeted treatments (such as anti-vegf drugs and gene therapy) in delaying axial elongation and preventing complications. a sea buckthorn seed oil nano-emulsion in the management of digital screen-induced ocular conditions. the widespread usage of digital devices has been associated with a significant increase in the incidence of various screen-related ocular diseases, particularly dry eye disease (ded), blue light (bl)-induced retinal damage, and myopia progression. furthermore, superior protection against bl-induced retinal damage was demonstrated compared with oral lutein supplementation. in addition, sbo-ne treatment delayed myopia progression. following appropriate treatment, corneal edema gradually resolved and visual acuity significantly improved in all patients.
Do milk or dairy products promote colon cancer and rectal cancer? [SEP] multivariate analysis of the label-declared nutritional composition of plant-based milk alternatives compared to milk in the ecuadorian market. the present study analyzed the nutritional labels of 68 commercial plant-based beverages sold in quito and compared them with cow's milk (whole, semi-skimmed and skimmed) using the kruskal-wallis non-parametric statistical analysis. although many products were fortified with calcium and vitamins a and d, their concentrations frequently did not match those found in cow's milk. this variability raises concerns about their adequacy as substitutes for cow's milk and highlights the need for improved regulatory frameworks and clearer nutritional information to support informed consumer choices. negative genetic correlations were observed between prepartum c-reactive protein (crp-pre) levels with total milk yield at 25 d in milk (my25, -0.46 ± 0.23), peak daily milk yield (peak, -0.72 ± 0.30), total milk yield at 90 d in milk (my90, -0.63 ± 0.19), average milk production (amp, -0.39 ± 0.19), average protein production (app, -0.41 ± 0.18), and 305-d total milk yield (-0.45 ± 0.25). herb supplementation is increasingly researched in dairy nutrition, yet the availability of comparative data on the short-term transfer kinetics of herb-derived terpenes into milk and their sensory relevance remains limited. major objective of the study was to reveal the short-term effects of feed supplementation, i.e., oregano, basil, thyme, rosemary, and yarrow, on milk's volatile compound composition, in accordance with the former findings establishing rapid transfer of terpenes from essential oils to dairy cow milk. no significant differences were observed in pasteurised milk color, aroma, flavor, or texture across all the treatments (p > 0.05). regional differences in milk yield, components, variability, and lactation curve structure were observed. associations between bovine viral diarrhea virus, bovine leukemia virus, and mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis exposure on h5n1 clinical signs and shedding in us dairy cows.
Which of the three most common laser eye surgeries produces the best results and has the fewest side effects? [SEP] 
Does the drug fingolimod reduce the progression of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis similarly or better than previous drugs? [SEP] although methotrexate (mtx) is extensively utilized in management of rheumatoid arthritis (ra), its pharmacogenomics are still unclear. a retrospective analysis of 1,948 ra patients receiving mtx treatment from january 2009 to january 2022, using data from the taiwan precision medicine initiative (tpmi) at taichung veterans general hospital. among these patients, 872 who required treatment with biologic disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (bdmards) or targeted synthetic dmards (tsdmards) were classified as mtx 'non-response', while the 1,076 patients treated without these agents were categorized as mtx 'response'. comparison of treatment effects between acr response criteria and target-based outcomes for contemporary rheumatoid arthritis drug approval trials: a meta-epidemiological study. we aim to systematically compare treatment effect estimates between american college of rheumatology (acr) response criteria (acr20/50/70) and target-based outcomes in placebo-controlled trials of approved ra therapies. a meta-epidemiological study was performed on randomized placebo-controlled trials investigating approved biological and targeted dmards (biodmards and tsdmards) in patients with ra. trials using acr20 demonstrated significantly greater treatment effect estimates compared to those using remission outcomes (ror = 0.65, 95% ci 0.52-0.81) and lda outcomes (ror = 0.78, 95% ci 0.69-0.89). higher acr thresholds (acr50 and acr70) showed better consistency with target-based outcomes, with acr70 aligning with remission (ror = 0.88, 95% ci 0.76-1.01) and acr50 aligning with lda (ror = 0.95, 95% ci 0.81-1.11). we aimed to evaluate the antitumour activity and safety of [ oclurandom is a randomised, open-label, non-comparative, phase 2 trial conducted in ten academic centres in france. patients aged 18 years and older with pretreated, progressive, somatostatin receptor-positive, metastatic pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours and an eastern cooperative oncology group performance status of 0-2 were randomly assigned (1:1) using web-based software to receive intravenous [ between feb 13, 2015, and july 16, 2020, 84 patients were enrolled and randomly assigned to the [ using sunitinib as an internal control, our results show clinically significant antitumour efficacy of [ french ministry of health, through the national institute for cancer.
Does electro-acupuncture on the ear help against pain? [SEP] 
Does treatment with the new drug erenumab reduce the number of migraine days per month? [SEP] comprehensive assessment of erenumab efficacy in participants with high-frequency episodic migraine with at least one previously failed preventive treatment: the embrace study. to evaluate the effect of erenumab treatment beyond monthly migraine days in patients with high-frequency episodic migraine who did not respond to at least one previous migraine preventive treatment. erenumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting the calcitonin gene-related peptide pathway, has demonstrated reduction in monthly migraine days and improvement in function in patients with episodic and chronic migraine. compared with placebo, erenumab significantly reduced migraine functional impact as assessed by the four domains of the migraine functional impact questionnaire, with a least squares mean (95% ci) difference of -7.36 (-10.80, -3.92) for physical functioning, -7.10 (-10.34, -3.87) for usual activities, -6.82 (-10.37, -3.27) for social functioning, and - 7.05 (-10.76, -3.34) for emotional functioning (p < 0.001 for all domains). findings from the embrace study demonstrated that treatment with erenumab in patients with high-frequency episodic migraine can provide positive therapeutic effects on ictal burden and pain, with residual migraine attacks tending to be shorter and less painful, with less overall impact. this study called embrace investigated the effect of preventive treatment with erenumab in patients with high‐frequency episodic migraine and considered other treatment effects beyond the number of migraine attacks per month. findings showed that treatment with erenumab provided positive effects on reducing the pain and duration of migraine. effectiveness and safety of erenumab and galcanezumab in the prevention of chronic and episodic migraine: a retrospective cohort study. results and discussion: findings here reported show that erenumab and galcanezumab reduced monthly headache days, acute migraine specific medication days per month, headache impact test score, migraine disability assessment test score and visual analogue scale score after 3 and 6 doses (p < 0.01). moreover, these data may suggest that erenumab and galcanezumab are able to not only diminish frequency, but also migraine intensity, and that it should be also considered as an effectiveness measure in line with other authors suggestion.
Is screening by optical coherence tomography superior to conventional examinations for the early detection of diabetic macular edema? [SEP] cost-effectiveness of incorporating self-imaging optical coherence tomography into fundus photography-based diabetic retinopathy screening. diabetic macular edema (dme) has emerged as the foremost cause of vision loss in the population with diabetes. early detection of dme is paramount, yet the prevailing screening, relying on two-dimensional and labor-intensive fundus photography (fp), results in frequent unwarranted referrals and overlooked diagnoses. self-imaging optical coherence tomography (si-oct), offering fully automated, three-dimensional macular imaging, holds the potential to enhance dr screening. we conducted an observational study within a cohort of 1822 participants with diabetes, who received comprehensive assessments, including visual acuity testing, fp, and si-oct examinations. we compared the performance of three screening strategies: the conventional fp-based strategy, a combination strategy of fp and si-oct, and a simulated combination strategy of fp and manual sd-oct. additionally, we undertook a cost-effectiveness analysis utilizing markov models to evaluate the costs and benefits of the three strategies for referable dr. we found that the fp + si-oct strategy demonstrated superior sensitivity (87.69% vs 61.53%) and specificity (98.29% vs 92.47%) in detecting dme when compared to the fp-based strategy. importantly, the fp + si-oct strategy outperformed the fp-based strategy, with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (icer) of $8016 per quality-adjusted life year (qaly), while the fp + sd-oct strategy was less cost-effective, with an icer of $45,754/qaly. our results were robust to extensive sensitivity analyses, with the fp + si-oct strategy standing as the dominant choice in 69.36% of simulations conducted at the current willingness-to-pay threshold. in summary, incorporating si-oct into fp-based screening offers substantial enhancements in sensitivity, specificity for detecting dme, and most notably, cost-effectiveness for dr screening.
Does the treatment of diabetes-related retinal diseases by injection of VEGF inhibitors provide an advantage compared to conventional laser treatment? [SEP] 
Do saw palmetto preparations help with benign prostate enlargement? [SEP] 
Can oral vein products containing herbal active ingredients such as rutosides, hidrosmin, diosmin, extracts of horse chestnut seed and pine bark, Centella asiatica or grape seed extract or the synthetic substances calcium dobesilate or aminaftone relieve symptoms such as itching, restless or swollen legs, pain and cramps in people suffering from varicose veins or chronic venous insufficiency? [SEP] she has developed significant chronic venous insufficiency and severe venous ulcers. intersaphenous veins in a population with a high prevalence of chronic venous insufficiency. while the femoral intersaphenous vein (vein of giacomini) is well known, evidence on crural intersaphenous veins remains limited. this study aimed to investigate intersaphenous veins in elderly internal medicine patients and compare the findings with previous data from healthy volunteers. all detected intersaphenous veins were assessed for incidence, diameter, length, location, blood-flow direction, and valves. to evaluate the efficacy and safety of paclitaxel-based localized venous therapy in improving long-term venous patency and reducing restenosis in patients with chronic dvt, compared with conventional angioplasty. these findings highlight the pharmaceutical relevance of localized antiproliferative drug delivery in the management of chronic venous disease. chronic venous insufficiency with stasis dermatitis is a common condition that requires careful dermatologic management, including wound care and compression therapy. chronic venous insufficiency - a one-dimensional blood flow modelling assessment of venous valves, perforators, muscle pump activity and external compression. compression therapy is the primary treatment for chronic venous insufficiency, yet hemodynamic mechanisms through which it improves venous function remain incompletely understood.
Do milk or dairy products promote bladder cancer? [SEP] multivariate analysis of the label-declared nutritional composition of plant-based milk alternatives compared to milk in the ecuadorian market. the global consumption of plant-based beverages has increased markedly in recent years. soy-based beverages exhibited the highest protein content, making them the closest nutritional alternative to cow's milk. although many products were fortified with calcium and vitamins a and d, their concentrations frequently did not match those found in cow's milk. negative genetic correlations were observed between prepartum c-reactive protein (crp-pre) levels with total milk yield at 25 d in milk (my25, -0.46 ± 0.23), peak daily milk yield (peak, -0.72 ± 0.30), total milk yield at 90 d in milk (my90, -0.63 ± 0.19), average milk production (amp, -0.39 ± 0.19), average protein production (app, -0.41 ± 0.18), and 305-d total milk yield (-0.45 ± 0.25). herb supplementation is increasingly researched in dairy nutrition, yet the availability of comparative data on the short-term transfer kinetics of herb-derived terpenes into milk and their sensory relevance remains limited. major objective of the study was to reveal the short-term effects of feed supplementation, i.e., oregano, basil, thyme, rosemary, and yarrow, on milk's volatile compound composition, in accordance with the former findings establishing rapid transfer of terpenes from essential oils to dairy cow milk. no significant differences were observed in pasteurised milk color, aroma, flavor, or texture across all the treatments (p > 0.05). the study demonstrates the feasibility of herb supplementation without compromising pasteurised milk sensory quality and highlights physicochemical constraints governing feed-to-milk transfer. regional differences in milk yield, components, variability, and lactation curve structure were observed.
Do milk or dairy products promote prostate cancer? [SEP] multivariate analysis of the label-declared nutritional composition of plant-based milk alternatives compared to milk in the ecuadorian market. soy-based beverages exhibited the highest protein content, making them the closest nutritional alternative to cow's milk. although many products were fortified with calcium and vitamins a and d, their concentrations frequently did not match those found in cow's milk. fertility traits, including pregnancy after first artificial insemination (pai1), pregnancy by 150 d in milk (p150) and by 250 d in milk (p250) had negative genetic correlations (-0.71 ± 0.36, -0.84 ± 0.40, and -0.88 ± 0.66, respectively) with saa-post. negative genetic correlations were observed between prepartum c-reactive protein (crp-pre) levels with total milk yield at 25 d in milk (my25, -0.46 ± 0.23), peak daily milk yield (peak, -0.72 ± 0.30), total milk yield at 90 d in milk (my90, -0.63 ± 0.19), average milk production (amp, -0.39 ± 0.19), average protein production (app, -0.41 ± 0.18), and 305-d total milk yield (-0.45 ± 0.25). herb supplementation is increasingly researched in dairy nutrition, yet the availability of comparative data on the short-term transfer kinetics of herb-derived terpenes into milk and their sensory relevance remains limited. major objective of the study was to reveal the short-term effects of feed supplementation, i.e., oregano, basil, thyme, rosemary, and yarrow, on milk's volatile compound composition, in accordance with the former findings establishing rapid transfer of terpenes from essential oils to dairy cow milk. no significant differences were observed in pasteurised milk color, aroma, flavor, or texture across all the treatments (p > 0.05). regional variation in milk production and lactation curves in response to heat stress in us dairy systems. regional differences in milk yield, components, variability, and lactation curve structure were observed.
Do green tea products provide effective and safe support for weight loss? [SEP] 
Does brisk walking lower mortality? Is some exercise better than none at all? [SEP] 
Can arthroscopy reduce pain or improve mobility? [SEP] while not statistically superior for the general population, the trv chair is a valuable tool for patients with mobility constraints. marked symptomatic improvement was observed following three courses of acupuncture treatment. incorporating median nerve nmts with gh joint mobilization provides beneficial effects for patients with ac in terms of reduction of pain severity, improving function, and increasing gh abduction mobility. neuromodulation through transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation in knee osteoarthritis: a systematic review and meta-analysis of pain, function, and its role in multimodal rehabilitation. this systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to evaluate the effects of tens on pain, physical function, muscle strength, stiffness, and mobility, and to examine its potential role in multimodal rehabilitation for knee osteoarthritis (koa). tens significantly improved pain [mean difference (md) = -0.82, 95% confidence interval (ci): -1.01 to -0.62], total womac scores (md = -4.76, 95% ci: -8.84 to -0.67), and muscle strength in knee extension (md = 7.39, 95% ci: 0.91 to 13.88) and flexion (md = 4.72, 95% ci: 1.92 to 7.52). tens effectively reduces pain and improves muscle strength in individuals with knee osteoarthritis. clinical benefits of manual therapies for cervical spondylosis. conservative approaches such as manual therapy may relieve pain and improve mobility in patients with nerve compression. this case report suggests that selected manual therapy interventions may help reduce neck pain, improve range of motion, and relieve hand paresthesia due to cs.
Do health benefits increase with duration and intensity of exercise? [SEP] such strategies are known to achieve a range of metabolic and nonmetabolic benefits during both high intensity exercise of short duration and more prolonged exercise of lower intensity. effects of exercise on cognitive function in older patients with alzheimer's disease: a meta-regression and meta-analysis. these studies examined the effects of exercise intervention on cognitive function in ad patients, compared with passive control groups without exercise. "to optimize intervention outcomes, exercise prescription should consider higher frequency (e.g., more than five sessions per week may be associated with greater cognitive benefits) and the cumulative effect during the initial intervention phase (e.g., sustained beyond 12 weeks may represent a critical window for short-term improvement). growing evidence suggests that exercise intensity, ranging from low to high, can differentially influence gut microbial composition, diversity, and functional outputs relevant to metabolic health. these effects appear to be influenced by factors such as exercise characteristics (intensity, modality, and duration), the timing of blood collection, and the type of cognitive assessments. exercise benefits cognition, particularly in older adults. acute effects are stronger with increased exercise intensity (low, g=0.24; moderate, g=0.64; vigorous, g=0.92; p < 0.001) and for higher age (old, g=0.83; young g=0.50; p < 0.001). exercise increases hbo concentration during exercise. exercise intensity appeared a key factor to increase impact on the brain both during and shortly after exercise.
