Do mitochondria play a role in remodelling lace plant leaves during programmed cell death? [SEP] do mitochondria play a role in remodelling lace plant leaves during programmed cell death? programmed cell death (pcd) is the regulated death of cells within an organism. the lace plant (aponogeton madagascariensis) produces perforations in its leaves through pcd. the role of mitochondria during pcd has been recognized in animals; however, it has been less studied during pcd in plants. the following paper elucidates the role of mitochondrial dynamics during developmentally regulated pcd in vivo in a. madagascariensis. window stage leaves were stained with the mitochondrial dye mitotracker red cmxros and examined. this treatment resulted in lace plant leaves with a significantly lower number of perforations compared to controls, and that displayed mitochondrial dynamics similar to that of non-pcd cells. results depicted mitochondrial dynamics in vivo as pcd progresses within the lace plant, and highlight the correlation of this organelle with other organelles during developmental pcd. to the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of mitochondria and chloroplasts moving on transvacuolar strands to form a ring structure surrounding the nucleus during developmental pcd. overall, our findings implicate the mitochondria as playing a critical and early role in developmentally regulated pcd in the lace plant.
Landolt C and snellen e acuity: differences in strabismus amblyopia? [SEP] 
Syncope during bathing in infants, a pediatric form of water-induced urticaria? [SEP] [syncope during bathing in infants, a pediatric form of water-induced urticaria?]. apparent life-threatening events in infants are a difficult and frequent problem in pediatric practice. eight infants aged 2 to 15 months were admitted during a period of 6 years; they suffered from similar maladies in the bath: on immersion, they became pale, hypotonic, still and unreactive; recovery took a few seconds after withdrawal from the bath and stimulation. two diagnoses were initially considered: seizure or gastroesophageal reflux but this was doubtful. the hypothesis of an equivalent of aquagenic urticaria was then considered; as for patients with this disease, each infant's family contained members suffering from dermographism, maladies or eruption after exposure to water or sun. all six infants had dermographism. we found an increase in blood histamine levels after a trial bath in the two infants tested. the evolution of these "aquagenic maladies" was favourable after a few weeks without baths. after a 2-7 year follow-up, three out of seven infants continue to suffer from troubles associated with sun or water. "aquagenic maladies" could be a pediatric form of the aquagenic urticaria.
Are the long-term results of the transanal pull-through equal to those of the transabdominal pull-through? [SEP] are the long-term results of the transanal pull-through equal to those of the transabdominal pull-through? the transanal endorectal pull-through (terpt) is becoming the most popular procedure in the treatment of hirschsprung disease (hd), but overstretching of the anal sphincters remains a critical issue that may impact the continence. this study examined the long-term outcome of terpt versus conventional transabdominal (abd) pull-through for hd. records of 41 patients more than 3 years old who underwent a pull-through for hd (terpt, n = 20; abd, n = 21) were reviewed, and their families were thoroughly interviewed and scored via a 15-item post-pull-through long-term outcome questionnaire. during this time, our group transitioned from the abd to the terpt technique. overall scores were similar. however, continence score was significantly better in the abd group, and the stool pattern score was better in the terpt group. a significant difference in age at interview between the 2 groups was noted; we therefore reanalyzed the data controlling for age, and this showed that age did not significantly affect the long-term scoring outcome between groups. our long-term study showed significantly better (2-fold) results regarding the continence score for the abdominal approach compared with the transanal pull-through. the stool pattern and enterocolitis scores were somewhat better for the terpt group.
Can tailored interventions increase mammography use among HMO women? [SEP] a cost-effectiveness comparison of three tailored interventions to increase mammography screening. cost-effectiveness of a tailored intervention to increase screening in hmo women overdue for pap test and mammography services. a randomized trial of telephone counseling to promote screening mammography in two hmos. tailored telephone counseling (ttc) is effective in increasing utilization of screening mammography, but has received limited testing on a large scale in a contemporary hmo setting in which most eligible women get regular screening. the absolute increase in mammography use due to the intervention was 4.9% (or 1.3, 95% ci 1.0-1.6) in one hmo and 3.1% (or 1.2, 95% ci 1.0-1.3) in the other. female hmo members aged 50-69 years and overdue for a mammogram and a pap test (n = 501) were followed for 24 months after interventions began. the purpose of this article is to assess the effects of tailored mammography interventions implemented prospectively in a factorial design contrasting groups receiving either (a) usual care (no intervention), (b) tailored telephone counseling for mammography, (c) tailored mailed materials promoting mammography, or (d) a combination of tailored mail and telephone counseling. can tailored interventions increase mammography use among hmo women? cost-effectiveness comparison of five interventions to increase mammography screening. a tailored phone prompt and physician reminder is an effective and economical intervention to increase mammography.
Double balloon enteroscopy: is it efficacious and safe in a community setting? [SEP] 
Is adjustment for reporting heterogeneity necessary in sleep disorders? [SEP] association of sleep duration and risk of mental disorder: a systematic review and meta-analysis. cross-sectional and cohort studies were considered if they evaluated the association of sleep duration with all kinds of mental illness in adults. is adjustment for reporting heterogeneity necessary in sleep disorders? this research uses vignettes to elucidate factors associated with sleep disorders in adult japanese before and after adjustment for reporting heterogeneity in self-reports. this study also evaluates the need for adjusting for reporting heterogeneity in the management of sleep and energy related problems in japan. the prevalence of self-reported problems with sleep and energy was 53 %. without correction of cut-point shifts, age, sex, and the number of comorbidities were significantly associated with a greater severity of sleep-related problems. after correction, age, the number of comorbidities, and regular exercise were significantly associated with a greater severity of sleep-related problems; sex was no longer a significant factor. sleep disorders are common in the general adult population of japan. correction for reporting heterogeneity using anchoring vignettes is not a necessary tool for proper management of sleep and energy related problems among japanese adults.
Do mutations causing low HDL-C promote increased carotid intima-media thickness? [SEP] do mutations causing low hdl-c promote increased carotid intima-media thickness? although observational data support an inverse relationship between high-density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol and coronary heart disease (chd), genetic hdl deficiency states often do not correlate with premature chd. carotid intima-media thickness (cimt) measurements were obtained in cases comprising 10 different mutations in lcat, abca1 and apoa1 to further evaluate the relationship between low hdl resulting from genetic variation and early atherosclerosis. in a 1:2 case-control study of sex and age-related (+/-5 y) subjects (n=114), cimt was nearly identical between cases (0.66+/-0.17 cm) and controls (0.65+/-0.18 cm) despite significantly lower hdl cholesterol (0.67 vs. 1.58 mmol/l) and apolipoprotein a-i levels (96.7 vs. 151.4 mg/dl) (p<0.05) genetic variants identified in the present study may be insufficient to promote early carotid atherosclerosis.
A short stay or 23-hour ward in a general and academic children's hospital: are they effective? [SEP] 
Did Chile's traffic law reform push police enforcement? [SEP] did chile's traffic law reform push police enforcement? understanding chile's traffic fatalities and injuries reduction. the objective of the current study is to determine to what extent the reduction of chile's traffic fatalities and injuries during 2000-2012 was related to the police traffic enforcement increment registered after the introduction of its 2005 traffic law reform. a unique dataset with assembled information from public institutions and analyses based on ordinary least square and robust random effects models was carried out. dependent variables were traffic fatality and severe injury rates per population and vehicle fleet. independent variables were: (1) presence of new national traffic law; (2) police officers per population; (3) number of traffic tickets per police officer; and (4) interaction effect of number of traffic tickets per police officer with traffic law reform. oil prices, alcohol consumption, proportion of male population 15-24 years old, unemployment, road infrastructure investment, years' effects and regions' effects represented control variables. empirical estimates from instrumental variables suggest that the enactment of the traffic law reform in interaction with number of traffic tickets per police officer is significantly associated with a decrease of 8% in traffic fatalities and 7% in severe injuries. piecewise regression model results for the 2007-2012 period suggest that police traffic enforcement reduced traffic fatalities by 59% and severe injuries by 37%. findings suggest that traffic law reforms in order to have an effect on both traffic fatality and injury rates reduction require changes in police enforcement practices.
Therapeutic anticoagulation in the trauma patient: is it safe? [SEP] the patient was treated with therapeutic anticoagulation using low-molecular-weight heparin followed by rivaroxaban for 6 months, achieving complete resolution without hemorrhagic complications. the favorable outcome supports safe initiation of therapeutic anticoagulation once acute coagulopathy resolves. after coagulopathy resolves, anticoagulation is safe. anticoagulant or antiplatelet therapy (excluding aspirin) was held preoperatively. these risks are particularly concerning in critically ill patients, especially those receiving anticoagulation or with acute coagulopathy. this approach provides precise hemostasis, minimizes vascular trauma, and offers a minimally invasive solution to prevent significant complications, ensuring a smooth recovery. use of antiplatelet or anticoagulant therapy was significantly higher in group-c (90.9% vs 27.3%, p < .001), but was not associated with increased bleeding complications. is regional only anesthesia a safe choice in anticoagulated hip fracture patients? a retrospective review of patients diagnosed with hip fractures (ao/ota 31a/b) who presented to a single academic medical center and level 1 trauma center actively using oral anticoagulants. this study evaluated the preclinical safety and feasibility of a novel therapy for vte prophylaxis for complications in trauma and surgical patients.
Differentiation of nonalcoholic from alcoholic steatohepatitis: are routine laboratory markers useful? [SEP] mapping of the circulating metabolome reveals α-ketoglutarate as a predictor of morbid obesity-associated non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. obesity severely affects human health, and the accompanying non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld) is associated with high morbidity and mortality. other common laboratory liver tests used in routine application did not favourably compare. plasma α-ketoglutarate is superior to common liver function tests in obese patients as a surrogate biomarker of nafld. the measurement of this biomarker may potentiate the search for a therapeutic approach, may decrease the need for liver biopsy and may be useful in the assessment of disease progression. differentiation of nonalcoholic from alcoholic steatohepatitis: are routine laboratory markers useful? specific markers for differentiation of nonalcoholic (nash) from alcoholic steatohepatitis (ash) are lacking. liver biopsies performed at our hospital over a 10-year period were reviewed, 95 patients with steatohepatitis identified and their data prior to biopsy reevaluated. the diagnosis nash or ash was assigned (other liver diseases excluded) on the basis of the biopsy and history of alcohol consumption (< 140 g/week). instead, these biomarkers might prove useful in guiding selection of patients for liver biopsy and in targeting therapy.
Prompting Primary Care Providers about Increased Patient Risk As a Result of Family History: Does It Work? [SEP] prompting primary care providers about increased patient risk as a result of family history: does it work? electronic health records have the potential to facilitate family history use by primary care physicians (pcps) to provide personalized care. the objective of this study was to determine whether automated, at-the-visit tailored prompts about family history risk change pcp behavior. automated, tailored prompts highlighting familial risk for heart disease, stroke, diabetes, and breast, colorectal, or ovarian cancer were implemented during 2011 to 2012. medical records of a cohort of community-based primary care patients, aged 35 to 65 years, who previously participated in our family healthware study and had a moderate or strong familial risk for any of the 6 diseases were subsequently reviewed. the main outcome measures were pcp response to the prompts, adding family history risk to problem summary lists, and patient screening status for each disease. the 492 eligible patients had 847 visits during the study period; 152 visits had no documentation of response to a family history prompt. of the remaining 695 visits, physician responses were reviewed family history (n = 372, 53.5%), discussed family history (n = 159, 22.9%), not addressed (n = 155, 22.3%), and reviewed family history and ordered tests/referrals (n = 5, 0.7%). no change occurred upon instituting simple, at-the-visit family history prompts geared to improve pcps' ability to identify patients at high risk for 6 common conditions. further studies should examine physicians' perception of the utility of prompts for family history risk.
Do emergency ultrasound fellowship programs impact emergency medicine residents' ultrasound education? [SEP] [integration of an advanced graduate medical education program for a new specialization in israel: the national israeli course in emergency medicine (nicem)]. many of these departments are still staffed by residents in internal medicine, surgery, orthopedics, and gynecology with emergency medicine (em) being one of the youngest specialties in israel. to "standardize care and raise the standard of care" a unique course - the national israeli course in emergency medicine (n.i.c.e.m.) point-of-care ultrasound is learned throughout the course. the integration of a mandatory nationwide graduate medical education course into the new specialty of emergency medicine in israel has been challenging. regional anesthesia aids in management of acute pain in the emergency department, but many emergency physicians remain inadequately trained. further complicating medical education, our academic center continues to use remote learning as the primary setting for residency didactics. a real-world experience: retrospective review of point-of-care ultrasound utilization and quality in community emergency departments. point-of-care ultrasound (pocus) is commonly used in the emergency department (ed) as a rapid diagnostic tool. education value units in medical education: a scoping review.
Patient-Controlled Therapy of Breathlessness in Palliative Care: A New Therapeutic Concept for Opioid Administration? [SEP] patient-controlled therapy of breathlessness in palliative care: a new therapeutic concept for opioid administration? breathlessness is one of the most distressing symptoms experienced by patients with advanced cancer and noncancer diagnoses alike. often, severity of breathlessness increases quickly, calling for rapid symptom control. to investigate whether intravenous opioid pct can be an effective therapeutic method to reduce breathlessness in patients with advanced disease. secondary aims were to study the feasibility and acceptance of opioid pct in patients with refractory breathlessness. this was a pilot observational study with 18 inpatients with advanced disease and refractory breathlessness receiving opioid pct. breathlessness was measured on a self-reported numeric rating scale. eighteen of 815 patients (advanced cancer; median age = 57.5 years [range 36-81]; 77.8% female) received breathlessness symptom control with opioid pct; daily morphine equivalent dose at day 1 was median = 20.3 mg (5.0-49.6 mg); day 2: 13.0 mg (1.0-78.5 mg); day 3: 16.0 mg (8.3-47.0 mg). on day 3, 12/12 patients confirmed that this mode of application provided relief of breathlessness. opioid pct is a feasible and acceptable therapeutic method to reduce refractory breathlessness in palliative care patients.
Is there still a need for living-related liver transplantation in children? [SEP] 
Do patterns of knowledge and attitudes exist among unvaccinated seniors? [SEP] determinants of shingles vaccine acceptance in the united kingdom. an anonymised self-administered questionnaire was developed using the health belief model as a theoretical framework, to collect data on demographic and socio-economic characteristics, health status, knowledge, influences, experiences and attitudes to shingles and the shingles vaccine. physicians' views concerning perceived barriers to vaccination were also assessed. in contrast, previous shingles history (or = 0.4), perceived barriers to vaccination (or = 0.7) and perceived control of the disease (or = 0.7) were associated with not being vaccinated against shingles (p<0.05). socio-psychological factors largely influence shingles vaccination acceptance in this study. do patterns of knowledge and attitudes exist among unvaccinated seniors? to examine patterns of knowledge and attitudes among adults aged > 65 years unvaccinated for influenza. surveyed medicare beneficiaries in 5 areas; clustered unvaccinated seniors by their immunization related knowledge and attitudes. identified 4 clusters: potentials (45%) would receive influenza vaccine to prevent disease; fearful uninformeds (9%) were unsure if influenza vaccine causes illness; doubters (27%) were unsure if vaccine is efficacious; misinformeds (19%) believed influenza vaccine causes illness. more potentials (75%) and misinformeds (70%) ever received influenza vaccine than did fearful uninformeds (18%) and doubters (29%).
Is there a model to teach and practice retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy? [SEP] 
Cardiovascular risk in a rural adult West African population: is resting heart rate also relevant? [SEP] 
Israeli hospital preparedness for terrorism-related multiple casualty incidents: can the surge capacity and injury severity distribution be better predicted? [SEP] israeli hospital preparedness for terrorism-related multiple casualty incidents: can the surge capacity and injury severity distribution be better predicted? the incidence of large-scale urban attacks on civilian populations has significantly increased across the globe over the past decade. these incidents often result in hospital multiple casualty incidents (hmci), which are very challenging to hospital teams. 15 years ago the emergency and disaster medicine division in the israeli ministry of health defined a key of 20 percent of each hospital's bed capacity as its readiness for multiple casualties. half of those casualties are expected to require immediate medical treatment. a retrospective study of hmcis was recorded in the israeli defense force (idf) home front command and the israeli national trauma registry (itr) between november 2000 and june 2003. an hmci is defined by the emergency and disaster medicine division in the israeli ministry of health as >or=10 casualties or >or=4 suffering from injuries with an iss>or=16 arriving to a single hospital. the mean number of arriving casualties to a single hospital was 20.8+/-13.3 (range 4-56, median 16.5). hospital preparedness can be better defined by a fixed number of casualties rather than a percentile of its bed capacity. implementation of this concept may improve the utilisation of national emergency health resources both in the preparation phase and on real time.
Acute respiratory distress syndrome in children with malignancy--can we predict outcome? [SEP] acute respiratory distress syndrome in children with malignancy--can we predict outcome? the purpose of this study was to delineate early respiratory predictors of mortality in children with hemato-oncology malignancy who developed acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards). we conducted a retrospective chart review of children with malignant and ards who needed mechanical ventilation and were admitted to a pediatric intensive care unit from january 1987 to january 1997. seventeen children with ards and malignancy aged 10.5 +/- 5.1 years were identified. six of the 17 children (35.3%) survived. sepsis syndrome was present in 70.6% of all the children. peak inspiratory pressure, positive end-expiratory pressure (peep), and ventilation index values could distinguish outcome by day 3. a significant relationship between respiratory data and outcome related to efficiency of oxygenation, as determined by pao(2)/fio(2) and p(a-a)o(2), was present from day 8 after onset of mechanical ventilation. peak inspiratory pressure, peep, and ventilation index values could distinguish survivors from nonsurvivors by day 3. this may assist in early application of supportive nonconventional therapies in children with malignancy and ards.
Secondhand smoke risk in infants discharged from an NICU: potential for significant health disparities? [SEP] secondhand smoke risk in infants discharged from an nicu: potential for significant health disparities? secondhand smoke exposure (shse) threatens fragile infants discharged from a neonatal intensive care unit (nicu). smoking practices were examined in families with a high respiratory risk infant (born at very low birth weight; ventilated > 12 hr) in a houston, texas, nicu. socioeconomic status, race, and mental health status were hypothesized to be related to shse and household smoking bans. data were collected as part of the baby's breath project, a hospital-based shse intervention trial targeting parents with a high-risk infant in the nicu who reported a smoker in the household (n = 99). measures of sociodemographics, smoking, home and car smoking bans, and depression were collected. overall, 26% of all families with a high-risk infant in the nicu reported a household smoker. almost half of the families with a smoker reported an annual income of less than $25,000. mothers who reported no smoking ban were more depressed than those who had a household smoking ban (p < .02). the most disadvantaged families were least likely to have protective health behaviors in place to reduce shse and, consequently, are most at-risk for tobacco exposure and subsequent tobacco-related health disparities.
Do nomograms designed to predict biochemical recurrence (BCR) do a better job of predicting more clinically relevant prostate cancer outcomes than BCR? [SEP] 
Are reports of mechanical dysfunction in chronic oro-facial pain related to somatisation? [SEP] are reports of mechanical dysfunction in chronic oro-facial pain related to somatisation? (i) to examine the association between self-reported mechanical factors and chronic oro-facial pain. (ii) to test the hypothesis that this relationship could be explained by: (a) reporting of psychological factors, (b) common association of self-reported mechanical factors with other unexplained syndromes. the study examined the association of chronic oro-facial pain with a variety of self-reported mechanical factors: teeth grinding, facial trauma, missing teeth and the feeling that the teeth did not fit together properly. information was also collected on demographic factors, psychological factors and the reporting of other frequently unexplained syndromes. only two mechanical factors: teeth grinding (odds ratio (or) 2.0, 95% ci 1.3-3.0) and facial trauma (or 2.0; 95% ci 1.3-2.9) were independently associated with chronic oro-facial pain after adjusting for psychological factors. however, these factors were also commonly associated with the reporting of other frequently unexplained syndromes: teeth grinding (odds ratio (or) 1.8, 95% ci 1.5-2.2), facial trauma (or 2.1; 95% ci 1.7-2.6). self-reported mechanical factors associated with chronic oro-facial pain are confounded, in part, by psychological factors and are equally common across other frequently unexplained syndromes. they may represent another feature of somatisation. therefore the use of extensive invasive therapy such as occlusal adjustments and surgery to change mechanical factors may not be justified in many cases.
Amblyopia: is visual loss permanent? [SEP] amblyopia, or "lazy eye," is a common visual disorder in children. early diagnosis and treatment prevent permanent vision loss. early and multimodal therapeutic strategies that target multiple facets of eyelid margin and ocular surface inflammation, coupled with timely amblyopia treatment, is required to prevent vision loss due to pbkc. recommendations for use and coverage of digital, binocular treatments for amblyopia. amblyopia is the most common cause of vision impairment in children and presents as reduced visual acuity caused by suppression of neurologic signals from an eye. this does not address the binocular vision deficits of amblyopia and leaves most patients with unresolved disease and permanent vision loss. amblyopia management differentiates pediatric from adult visual rehabilitation following ogi, and we discuss the current state-of-the-art approaches for the prevention of vision loss. the conflict in gaza and the lack of facilities to adequately cater to their ophthalmic needs expose children to the risk of developing amblyopia and long-term vision loss. interventions to treat amblyopia, the most common cause of uncorrectable vision loss, have limited efficacy in late childhood. efforts are needed to identify and treat amblyopia in socioeconomically disadvantaged populations at an earlier age to prevent permanent vision loss.
Implementation of epidural analgesia for labor: is the standard of effective analgesia reachable in all women? [SEP] 
Is halofantrine ototoxic? [SEP] is halofantrine ototoxic? experimental study on guinea pig cochlea model. halofantrine is a newly developed antimalarial drug used for the treatment of plasmodium falciparum malaria. the introduction of this drug has been delayed because of its possible side effects, and due to insufficient studies on adverse reactions in humans. there have been no studies investigating its effect on hearing. thirty guinea pigs were divided into three groups: a control group, a halofantrine therapeutic dose group and a halofantrine double therapeutic dose group. one cochlea specimen from each animal was stained with haematoxylin and eosin and the other with toluidine blue. the halofantrine therapeutic dose group showed loss and distortion of inner hair cells and inner phalangeal cells, and loss of spiral ganglia cells. in the halofantrine double therapeutic dose group, the inner and outer hair cells were distorted and there was loss of spiral ganglia cells. halofantrine has mild to moderate pathological effects on cochlea histology, and can be considered an ototoxic drug.
Visceral adipose tissue area measurement at a single level: can it represent visceral adipose tissue volume? [SEP] 
Necrotizing fasciitis: an indication for hyperbaric oxygenation therapy? [SEP] outcome of necrotizing fasciitis and fournier's gangrene with and without hyperbaric oxygen therapy: a retrospective analysis over 10 years. necrotizing soft tissue infections (nsti) require immediate radical debridement, broad-spectrum antibiotics and intensive care. hyperbaric oxygenation therapy (hbot) is used as emergency treatment for decompression sickness, gas embolism, carbon monoxide intoxication, and necrotizing fasciitis. [complex treatment of pyoderma gangrenosum after minor trauma and primary surgical intervention with suspected necrotizing fasciitis]. a magnetic resonance imaging (mri) scan showed the suspicion of necrotizing fasciitis (nf) with indications for immediate incision and fascia resection. hyperbaric oxygen and wound healing. [hyperbaric oxygen therapy for necrotizing soft tissue infections: contra]. hyperbaric oxygen therapy (hbot) is discussed as an adjuvant option to treat necrotizing soft tissue infections (nsti). a literature search (medline/embase/cochrane/manual search) using the keywords "necrotizing fasciitis", "fournier's gangrene", "necrotizing cellulitis", "necrotizing soft tissue infections" as well as "hyperbaric medicine", "hyperbaric therapy" and "hyperbaric treatment" was carried out. hyperbaric oxygen has antimicrobial effects and is offered for patients with limb- or life-threatening infections, such as clostridial gas gangrene and necrotizing fasciitis.
Is a mandatory general surgery rotation necessary in the surgical clerkship? [SEP] is a mandatory general surgery rotation necessary in the surgical clerkship? changes in the spectrum of general surgery and the delivery of surgical care have placed the requirement for a mandatory general surgery rotation in the surgical clerkship in question. we tested the hypothesis that equal mastery of surgical clerkship objectives can be obtained in a clerkship with and without general surgery. students chose any two surgical rotations and were assessed by written examination, objective structured clinical examination (osce), ward evaluations, self-assessment objectives questionnaire, and satisfaction survey. data for 54 students showed no differences in scores between groups on any parameter. no specific concerns related to the absence of general surgery were identified. effective undergraduate surgical education can be offered in many specialty settings. removal of the requirement for general surgery in clerkship may lead to a more effective use of all educational opportunities. a careful analysis of local programs and facilities is necessary before suggesting this change to other institutions.
Is Acupuncture Efficacious for Treating Phonotraumatic Vocal Pathologies? [SEP] is acupuncture efficacious for treating phonotraumatic vocal pathologies? to investigate the effectiveness of acupuncture in treating phonotraumatic vocal fold lesions. a total of 123 dysphonic individuals with benign vocal pathologies were recruited. they were given either genuine acupuncture (n = 40), sham acupuncture (n = 44), or no treatment (n = 39) for 6 weeks (two 30-minute sessions/wk). the genuine acupuncture group received needles puncturing nine voice-related acupoints for 30 minutes, two times a week for 6 weeks, whereas the sham acupuncture group received blunted needles stimulating the skin surface of the nine acupoints for the same frequency and duration. the no-treatment group did not receive any intervention but attended just the assessment sessions. one-hundred seventeen subjects completed the study (genuine acupuncture = 40; sham acupuncture = 43; and no treatment = 34), but only 84 of them had a complete set of vocal functions and quality of life measures (genuine acupuncture = 29; sham acupuncture = 33; and no-treatment = 22) and 42 of them with a complete set of endoscopic data (genuine acupuncture = 16; sham acupuncture = 15; and no treatment = 11). significant improvement in vocal function, as indicated by the maximum fundamental frequency produced, and also perceived quality of life, were found in both the genuine and sham acupuncture groups, but not in the no-treatment group. structural (morphological) improvements were, however, only noticed in the genuine acupuncture group, which demonstrated a significant reduction in the size of the vocal fold lesions. the findings showed that acupuncture of voice-related acupoints could bring about improvement in vocal function and healing of vocal fold lesions.
Is aneurysm repair justified for the patients aged 80 or older after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage? [SEP] impact of sex on outcomes in critically ill patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage: a secondary analysis of a french prospective cohort study. aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (asah) remains a severe condition with high morbidity and mortality. early postoperative cerebral infarction (epci) remains a major complication following surgical treatment of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (asah) and contributes to unfavorable neurological outcomes. 30-day home time as a patient-centered outcome after treatment of unruptured intracranial aneurysms. systemic metabolic reprogramming within 24 h predicts delayed cerebral ischemia after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. delayed cerebral ischemia (dci) remains a major determinant of poor outcomes after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (asah), yet early risk stratification is challenging. functional outcomes after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (asah) are traditionally defined using the modified rankin scale (mrs), often overlooking specific deficits such as dysphagia. intraprocedural technical events during flow diverter implantation partially mediate the effect of age on aneurysm occlusion. we aimed to study the effect of age on aneurysm occlusion mediated by intraprocedural technical events. increasing age was associated with lower odds of occlusion (adjusted odds ratio = 0.962,  intraprocedural technical events partially mediate the effect of age on complete aneurysm occlusion after fd treatment.
Do general practice characteristics influence uptake of an information technology (IT) innovation in primary care? [SEP] after the disruptive innovation: how remote and digital services were embedded, blended and abandoned in uk general practice - longitudinal study. research questions: what was the range of responses to the expansion of remote and digital triage and consultations among united kingdom general practices in the period following the acute phase of the coronavirus disease discovered in 2019 (covid-19) pandemic? adoption and embedding of technologies were affected by various staff and patient factors. we offer an updated typology of digital maturity in general practice with suggestions for tailored support. we studied how united kingdom general practices took these ‘disruptive innovations’ forward (or not). do general practice characteristics influence uptake of an information technology (it) innovation in primary care? recent evaluations of it innovations in primary care have highlighted variations between centres and practices in uptake and use. we evaluated whether structural characteristics of a general practice were associated with variations in use of a web-based clinical information system underpinning a managed clinical network in diabetes, between the years 2001 and 2003. in regression analyses, we determined whether total use was associated with structural characteristics of the practice (total list size, training status, numbers of gps (general practitioners), mean age of the gps, numbers of female gps, level of deprivation of the population and whether staff had received advanced training in diabetes care). the analyses show that structural characteristics of a practice are not associated with uptake of a new it facility, but that its use may be influenced by post-graduate education in the relevant clinical condition.
Prognosis of well differentiated small hepatocellular carcinoma--is well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma clinically early cancer? [SEP] prognosis of well differentiated small hepatocellular carcinoma--is well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma clinically early cancer? the purpose of this study is to examine whether or not well differentiated (w-d) hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is indeed clinically early cancer. seventy six patients with solitary small hccs up to 3 cm in diameter, who underwent hepatectomy, were observed for at least 2 years for possible recurrence. these patients were divided into two groups: 10 patients with w-d hccs (edmondson and steiner's grade i) and 66 patients with less differentiated (l-d) hccs (edmondson and steiner's grade i-ii, ii-iii, and iii). the histological analysis revealed that w-d hccs had lower incidences of fibrous capsule formation (p<0.01), when compared to l-d hccs. there were no significant differences in the incidence of intrahepatic metastasis, or portal vein invasion. the transparent specimen showed that the portal vein in the tumor seemed to be intact. microscopically, cancer cell infiltration into the fibrous frame of the portal tract was present. an analysis of tumor volume doubling time in recurrent foci suggested that minute cancerous foci had been present at the time of operation. w-d hccs were clinically demonstrated not to be early cancer, because there was no significant difference in disease free survival between the patients with w-d and l-d hccs.
Do follow-up recommendations for abnormal Papanicolaou smears influence patient adherence? [SEP] psychological and sociocultural perspectives on follow-up of abnormal papanicolaou results. to understand women's motivation to attend follow-up of an abnormal papanicolaou (pap) test by applying a general theoretical framework for voluntary behavior. do follow-up recommendations for abnormal papanicolaou smears influence patient adherence? to compare adherence to follow-up recommendations for colposcopy or repeated papanicolaou (pap) smears for women with previously abnormal pap smear results. improving the follow-up of patients with abnormal papanicolaou smear results. a review of the literature on adherence with recommended follow-up after an abnormal screening papanicolaou smear result reveals that many women do not receive adequate follow-up. primary care providers can influence the number of women who undergo timely colposcopy or a subsequent papanicolaou smear by addressing common barriers to follow-up. follow-up of abnormal papanicolaou smears in a hospital-based adolescent clinic. to present data on the spectrum of abnormal papanicolaou (pap) smears in adolescents and to determine factors that influence compliance with recommendations to return for repeat pap smears or for colposcopic examination. compliance with follow-up for abnormal pap smears including referral to the colposcopy clinic, and the results of repeat pap smears and colposcopy.
Biomolecular identification of allergenic pollen: a new perspective for aerobiological monitoring? [SEP] 
Does diabetes mellitus influence the efficacy of FDG-PET in the diagnosis of cervical cancer? [SEP] does diabetes mellitus influence the efficacy of fdg-pet in the diagnosis of cervical cancer? compared with computed tomography (ct) and magnetic resonance imaging (mri), positron emission tomography (pet) may have additional value in the assessment of primary and recurrent cervical cancer. however, the degree of tumour uptake of (18)f-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d: -glucose (fdg) uptake is sometimes influenced by diabetes mellitus (dm). therefore, we conducted this prospective study to compare the diagnostic ability of fdg-pet in patients with cervical cancer complicated by dm and those without dm. patients with untreated locally advanced primary or clinically curable recurrent cervical carcinoma were enrolled. both fdg-pet and mri/ct scans were performed within 2 weeks. from february 2001 to january 2003, 219 patients (75 with primary and 144 with recurrent cervical cancer) were eligible for analysis. the diagnostic power of pet in the hyperglycaemic dm, euglycaemic dm and non-dm groups did not differ significantly with regard to the identification of either metastatic lesions (auc, 0.967/0.947/0.925, p>0.05) or primary tumours/local recurrence (auc, 0.950/0.938/0.979, p>0.05). considering all dm patients, pet showed a significantly higher detection power than mri/ct scans in respect of metastatic lesions (auc=0.956 vs 0.824, p=0.012). in comparison with its accuracy in non-dm patients, the accuracy of pet in cervical cancer patients with mild to moderate dm was not significantly reduced.
Biomechanical and wound healing characteristics of corneas after excimer laser keratorefractive surgery: is there a difference between advanced surface ablation and sub-Bowman's keratomileusis? [SEP] 
Does radiotherapy of the primary rectal cancer affect prognosis after pelvic exenteration for recurrent rectal cancer? [SEP] does radiotherapy of the primary rectal cancer affect prognosis after pelvic exenteration for recurrent rectal cancer? radiotherapy reduces local recurrence rates but is also capable of short- and long-term toxicity. this study examined the impact of radiotherapy for the primary rectal cancer on outcomes after pelvic exenteration for local recurrence. patients who did and did not receive radiotherapy as part of their primary rectal cancer treatment were compared. patients who received radiotherapy for their primary rectal cancer (n = 41) required more radical exenterations (68% vs 44%; p = 0.020), had lower rates of clear resection margins (63% vs 87%; p = 0.010), had increased rates of surgical complications per patient (p = 0.014), and had a lower disease-free survival (p = 0.022). patients who previously received radiotherapy for primary rectal cancer treatment have worse oncologic outcomes than those who had not received radiotherapy after pelvic exenteration for locally recurrent rectal cancer. prognostic factors affecting oncologic outcomes in patients with locally recurrent rectal cancer: impact of patterns of pelvic recurrence on curative resection. the purpose of this study is to investigate prognostic factors affecting oncologic outcomes in patients with locally recurrent rectal cancer and determine whether recurrence patterns influence curative resection of recurrent tumor. we examined 62 patients with isolated local recurrence following total mesorectal excision (tme) of the primary rectal cancer. disease-free survival less than 1 year and curative resection of local recurrence were independent prognostic factors affecting oncologic outcomes in patients with locally recurrent rectal cancer.
Colorectal cancer with synchronous liver metastases: does global management at the same centre improve results? [SEP] colorectal cancer with synchronous liver metastases: does global management at the same centre improve results? synchronous liver metastases (slm) occur in 20% of colorectal cancers (crc). resection of slm and clc can be undertaken at different centres (separate management, sm) or at the same centre (global management, gm). retrospective study of slm and crc resections carried out during 01/2000 - 12/2006 by sm or gm, using a combined or delayed strategy. in patients with delayed liver resection (62 sm, 17 gm), chemotherapy prior to liver surgery was used in 92% and 38% of sm and gm patients (p < 0.0001) and the median delay between procedures was 212 and 182 days, respectively (p = 0.04). first step of liver resection was more often performed during colorectal surgery in the gm group (62 vs. 6% for sm, p < 0.0001) and the mean number of procedures (crc+slm) was lower (1.6 vs. 2.3, p = 0.003). overall survival rates were 67% and 51% for sm and gm at 3 years (n.s. disease-free survival to 5 years was higher in sm patients (14% vs. 11%, p = 0.009). gm of crc and slm was associated with fewer procedures but did not influence overall survival. sm was associated with a longer delay and increased use of chemotherapy between procedures, suggesting that more rigorous selection of sm patients for surgery may explain the higher disease-free survival after slm resection.
Is motion perception deficit in schizophrenia a consequence of eye-tracking abnormality? [SEP] is motion perception deficit in schizophrenia a consequence of eye-tracking abnormality? studies have shown that schizophrenia patients have motion perception deficit, which was thought to cause eye-tracking abnormality in schizophrenia. however, eye movement closely interacts with motion perception. the known eye-tracking difficulties in schizophrenia patients may interact with their motion perception. at 150 msec, speed discrimination thresholds did not differ between schizophrenia patients (n = 38) and control subjects (n = 33). furthermore, frequencies of eye tracking during the 300 msec stimulus were significantly correlated with speed discrimination in control subjects (p = .01) but not in patients, suggesting that eye-tracking initiation may benefit control subjects but not patients. the frequency of eye tracking during speed discrimination was not significantly related to regular eye-tracking performance. speed discrimination, per se, is not impaired in schizophrenia patients. the observed abnormality appears to be a consequence of impairment in generating or integrating the feedback information from eye movements. this study introduces a novel approach to motion perception studies and highlights the importance of concurrently measuring eye movements to understand interactions between these two systems; the results argue for a conceptual revision regarding motion perception abnormality in schizophrenia.
Transgastric endoscopic splenectomy: is it possible? [SEP] splenic abscess due to a perforated duodenal ulcer successfully treated with endoscopic ultrasound-guided transgastric drainage. although the dissemination of endoscopic ultrasound (eus) intervention techniques has made it possible to perform puncture and drainage via the transgastrointestinal route for intra-abdominal abscesses where the percutaneous route has been difficult, there have been few reports of eus-guided drainage of splenic abscesses. a case of a splenic abscess associated with a perforated duodenal ulcer that was successfully treated with eus-guided transgastric drainage is described. [the future of gastrointestinal therapeutic endoscopy: notes]. transgastric endoscopic splenectomy: is it possible? we present results of per-oral transgastric splenectomy in a porcine model. the goal of this study was to determine the technical feasibility of per-oral transgastric splenectomy using a flexible endoscope. endoscopic splenectomy was performed on six pigs. ligation of the splenic vessels and mobilization of the spleen were achieved using commercially available devices and endoscopic accessories. transgastric endoscopic splenectomy in a porcine model appears technically feasible.
It's Fournier's gangrene still dangerous? [SEP] it's fournier's gangrene still dangerous? fournier's gangrene is known to have an impact in the morbidity and despite antibiotics and aggressive debridement, the mortality rate remains high. to assess the morbidity and mortality in the treatment of fournier's gangrene in our experience. the medical records of 14 patients with fournier's gangrene who presented at the university hospital center "mother teresa" from january 1997 to december 2006 were reviewed retrospectively to analyze the outcome and identify the risk factor and prognostic indicators of mortality. of the 14 patients, 5 died and 9 survived. mean age was 54 years (range from 41-61): it was 53 years in the group of survivors and 62 years in deceased group. there was a significant difference in leukocyte count between patients who survived (range 4900-17000/mm) and those died (range 20.300-31000/mm3). mean hospital stay was about 19 days (range 2-57 days). the interval from the onset of clinical symptoms to the initial surgical intervention seems to be the most important prognostic factor with a significant impact on outcome. despite extensive therapeutic efforts, fournier's gangrene remains a surgical emergency and early recognition with prompt radical debridement is the mainstays of management.
Is it appropriate to implant kidneys from elderly donors in young recipients? [SEP] 
Do provider service networks result in lower expenditures compared with HMOs or primary care case management in Florida's Medicaid program? [SEP] interpersonal primary care continuity for chronic conditions is associated with fewer hospitalizations and emergency department visits among medicaid enrollees. integrated case management: does it reduce health service disparities across african american and white medicaid beneficiaries? prior research demonstrated that a florida medicaid disease management program led to reductions in service disparities between whites and african americans. we study a medicaid integrated case management program implemented in virginia, which shares disease management program objectives but can be applied to a broader range of patients. health care organizations performing case management, care management, disease management, and care coordination. examining the impact of medicaid-managed care home-based and community-based service (hcbs) alternatives to institutional care is critical given the recent rapid expansion of these models nationally. we compared quality before and after a mandatory transition of disabled medicaid enrollees older than 21 years from fee-for-service (ffs) or primary care case management (pccm) to star+plus in 28 counties, relative to enrollees in counties remaining in the ffs or pccm models. do provider service networks result in lower expenditures compared with hmos or primary care case management in florida's medicaid program? to determine the impact of florida's medicaid demonstration 4 years post-implementation on per member per month (pmpm) medicaid expenditures and whether receiving care through hmos versus provider service networks (psns) in the demonstration was associated with pmpm expenditures. demonstration psns generated slightly greater reductions in expenditures compared to demonstration hmos.
Assessment of carotid artery stenosis before coronary artery bypass surgery. Is it always necessary? [SEP] patients with carotid stenosis >70%, either asymptomatic or symptomatic, underwent ct-scan without contrast media to assess ischemic brain injury, and in some cases, if necessary, ct-angiography of the neck and intracranial vessels. [severe carotid artery disease;preoperative assessment and perioperative management]. in order to reduce the risk of cerebrovascular insults (cvi), the latest recommendations suggest that carotid endarterectomy (cea) is strongly indicated in patients scheduled for coronary surgery when significant carotid artery stenosis is symptomatic and/or bilateral. assessment of carotid artery stenosis before coronary artery bypass surgery. extracranial internal carotid artery stenosis is a risk factor for perioperative stroke in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery (cab). strokes after cardiac surgery and relationship to carotid stenosis. to critically examine the role of significant carotid stenosis in the pathogenesis of postoperative stroke following cardiac operations. carotid intervention prior to or during coronary artery bypass grafting. a liberal policy to identify high-grade carotid stenosis using duplex ultrasound testing prior to coronary revascularization is recommended. patients with symptomatic >50% internal carotid artery stenosis should be considered for carotid endarterectomy at the time of coronary revascularization.
Does pretreatment with statins improve clinical outcome after stroke? [SEP] low-dose statin pretreatment improves function and prognosis of recurrent ischemic stroke patients. statins are effective in improving the prognosis of stroke patients. the low-dose statin group had a higher percentage of milder stroke at admission ( low-dose statin pretreatment alleviated stroke severity and improved functional outcomes of recurrent stroke patients. hmg-coa reductase inhibitors (statins) are associated with improved stroke outcome. several animal studies indicate that statin pretreatment enhances cerebral blood flow after ischemic stroke, although this finding is not further supported in clinical settings. pre-stroke use of statins on stroke outcome: a meta-analysis of observational studies. animal pre-clinical studies suggest that statins may have neuroprotective effects in acute ischaemic stroke. statin therapy before stroke-onset was associated with a lower risk of in-hospital mortality (or 0.56; 95% ci: 0.40 to 0.78, p < 0.0006). our meta-analysis suggests that pretreatment with statins does not improve 3 months functional outcome, defined as independence on mrs, but decreases in-hospital mortality and increases the risk of developing a symptomatic haemorrhagic transformation in patients treated with thrombolysis. 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme a (hmg-coa) reductase inhibitors, or statins, have been associated with improved clinical outcomes after ischemic stroke and subarachnoid hemorrhage, but with an increased risk of incidental spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ich).
Processing fluency effects: can the content and presentation of participant information sheets influence recruitment and participation for an antenatal intervention? [SEP] processing fluency effects: can the content and presentation of participant information sheets influence recruitment and participation for an antenatal intervention? to assess the extent to which the title and font of participant information sheets (piss) can influence pregnant women's and trainee midwives' perceptions of an antenatal intervention. pregnant women (n=35) and trainee midwives (n=36) were randomly presented with one of four piss where the title and font of the pis had been manipulated to create four experimental conditions (i.e., double fluent; double awkward; fluent title-awkward font; awkward title-fluent font). after reading the pis, participants rated their perceptions of the intervention (i.e., attractiveness, complexity, expected risk, required effort) using five-point likert scales. a 4×2 factorial multivariate analysis of variance revealed that pregnant women rated the double awkward condition as significantly more complex than the double fluent (p=.024) and awkward title-fluent font (p=.021) conditions. font influenced pregnant women's ratings of intervention complexity. results have implications for ethical recruitment, and in turn, the optimisation of corresponding interventions.
Is there a correlation between androgens and sexual desire in women? [SEP] 
Does immediate breast reconstruction compromise the delivery of adjuvant chemotherapy? [SEP] the impact of immediate breast reconstruction on the time to delivery of adjuvant therapy: the ibra-2 study. immediate breast reconstruction (ibr) is routinely offered to improve quality-of-life for women requiring mastectomy, but there are concerns that more complex surgery may delay adjuvant oncological treatments and compromise long-term outcomes. time from last definitive cancer surgery to first adjuvant treatment for patients undergoing mastectomy ± ibr were compared and risk factors associated with delays explored. our study aims to assess the oncologic safety of immediate breast reconstruction (ibr) with a deep inferior epigastric perforator flap (diep), in the setting of adjuvant radiation therapy. immediate breast reconstruction (ibr) is routinely offered to improve quality of life for women with breast cancer requiring a mastectomy, but there are concerns that more complex surgery may delay the delivery of adjuvant oncological treatments and compromise long-term oncological outcomes. does immediate breast reconstruction compromise the delivery of adjuvant chemotherapy? immediate breast reconstruction (ibr) provides psychological benefit to many early breast cancer patients however concerns persist regarding its potential impact on chemotherapy delivery. retrospective analysis of patients in an academic breast service, who underwent mastectomy, with or without reconstruction, and received adjuvant chemotherapy. oncological aspects of breast reconstruction. three retrospective series compared chemotherapy delivery after immediate breast reconstruction with controls having mastectomy alone.
Can PRISM predict length of PICU stay? [SEP] performance of prism iii and pediatric early warning score for predicting patients needing increased level of care in a pediatric intermediate care unit. the aim of this study is to evaluate the performance of prism iii and pediatric early warning score (pews) for predicting increased level of care in an intermediate care unit (imcu) and to describe the factors associated with it. • early warning scores (pews) and prism iii are widely used in general wards and picu, respectively. • both prism iii and pews have limited accuracy in predicting the need for increased level of care within an imcu. crp to albumin ratio is an inexpensive but statistically significant biomarker having comparable discriminatory power to that of prism iii score for assessing critically ill children, and fluid imbalance is a significant indicator of duration of picu stay. the study retrospectively reviewed picu patients admitted to aga khan university hospital from september 2018 to december 2022, excluding those admitted for less than 48 h for elective procedures, received recent rbc transfusions, or were anemic. the median age was 21 months, the mortality rate was 24.1%, and the average length of hospital stay in the picu was 9 days. correlation analysis showed a strong association between fss scores and mechanical ventilation duration (r = 0.786, p < 0.001) and picu length of stay (r = 0.706, p < 0.001). this is a prospective, observational study of children admitted to the picu at an urban, quaternary, academic children's hospital. in the latter group, 46% met the criteria for pts, mean age of 13 years (sd 3), 57% male, a mean prism iii score of 4.9 (sd 4.3), and intensive care unit length of stay 6.5 days (sd 7.8).
Can predilatation in transcatheter aortic valve implantation be omitted? [SEP] predilatation for transcatheter aortic valve replacement: still have a role? predilation with a balloon aortic valvuloplasty (bav) was the standard of care for transcatheter aortic valve replacement (tavr) until recently. predilatation prior to transcatheter aortic valve implantation: is it still a prerequisite? predilatation has been historically considered a mandatory step before transcatheter aortic valve implantation (tavi) since it facilitates valve crossing and prosthesis delivery, ensures optimal valve expansion and improves hemodynamic stability during valve deployment. in the absence of high-quality, robust evidence, the current review aims to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of omitting predilatation prior to tavi. can predilatation in transcatheter aortic valve implantation be omitted? the use of a balloon expandable stent valve includes balloon predilatation of the aortic stenosis before valve deployment. the aim of the study was to see whether or not balloon predilatation is necessary in transcatheter aortic valve replacement (tavi). direct transapical aortic valve implantation: a modified transcatheter approach avoiding balloon predilatation. we have developed a novel technique of 'direct transapical aortic valve implantation', which enables surgeons to avoid predilatation of the native av.
Autoerotic asphyxiation: secret pleasure--lethal outcome? [SEP] autoerotic asphyxiation: secret pleasure--lethal outcome? voluntary asphyxiation among children, preteens, and adolescents by hanging or other means of inducing hypoxia/anoxia to enhance sexual excitement is not uncommon and can lead to unintended death. this study addresses autoerotic asphyxiation (aea) with the intent of increasing pediatricians' knowledge of the syndrome and awareness of its typical onset among young patients. aea is characteristically a clandestine and elusive practice. a retrospective study was undertaken of published cases both fatal and nonfatal and included personal communications, referenced citations, clinical experience, and theoretical formulations as to causation. characteristic aea manifestations, prevalence, age range, methods of inducing hypoxia/anoxia, and gender weighting are presented. aea can be conceptualized as a personalized, ritualized, and symbolic biopsychosocial drama. it seems to be a reenactment of intense emotional feeling-states involving an identification and sadomasochistic relationship with a female figure. inept aea practitioners can miscalculate the peril of the situation that they have contrived and for numerous reasons lose their gamble with death. awareness of choking games among the young and, of those, a subset who eventually progress to potentially fatal aea is strongly encouraged among all primary care professionals who may be able to interrupt the behavior.
Major depression and alcohol use disorder in adolescence: Does comorbidity lead to poorer outcomes of depression? [SEP] major depression and alcohol use disorder in adolescence: does comorbidity lead to poorer outcomes of depression? comorbid major depression (md) and alcohol use disorder (aud), particularly in adolescents, have been shown to be associated with poorer subsequent md outcomes. longitudinal data were used to model associations between a four-level classification of md/aud during the period 15-18 years (neither; md-only; aud-only; comorbid md/aud) and md over the period 18-35 years. these associations were then adjusted for confounding by a series of factors measured in childhood. the three disorder groups had rates of adult md during the period 18-35 years that were significantly (p<.05) higher than that of the group with no disorder. furthermore, those in the comorbid md/aud group had significantly (p <.05) higher rates of adult md than those in the aud-only group, and marginally (p <.10) higher rates of adult md than those in the md-only group. after adjustment for confounding, the difference in rates of adult md between the md-only group and the md/aud group were no longer statistically significant. the factors that explained the associations were gender, childhood behavior problems, and exposure to physical and sexual abuse. the results of these analyses suggest that marginally higher rates of depression to age 35 amongst the comorbid md/aud group were explained by increased exposure to adverse childhood circumstances amongst members of the comorbid group. adolescent md/aud comorbidity is likely to be a risk marker, rather than a causal factor in subsequent md.
Cold preparation use in young children after FDA warnings: do concerns still exist? [SEP] 
Does a 4 diagram manual enable laypersons to operate the Laryngeal Mask Supreme®? [SEP] does a 4 diagram manual enable laypersons to operate the laryngeal mask supreme®? a significant reduction in the "no-flow-time", quantitatively better chest compressions and an improved quality of ventilation can be demonstrated during cpr using supraglottic airway devices (sads). previous studies have demonstrated the ability of inexperienced persons to operate sads after brief instruction. the aim of this pilot study was to determine whether an instruction manual consisting of four diagrams enables laypersons to operate a laryngeal mask supreme® (lmas) in the manikin. an instruction manual of four illustrations with speech bubbles displaying the correct use of the lmas was designed. laypersons were handed a bag containing a lmas, a bag mask valve device (bmv), a syringe prefilled with air and the instruction sheet, and were asked to perform and ventilate the manikin as displayed. within the first 2 minutes 119 (79.3%) applicants were able to insert the lmas and provide tidal volumes greater than 150 ml (estimated dead space). time to insertion and first ventilation was 83.2 ± 29 s. no significant difference related to previous bls training (p = 0.85), technical education (p = 0.07) or gender could be demonstrated (p = 0.25). in manikin laypersons could insert lmas in the correct direction after onsite instruction by a simple manual with a high success rate. improvements in labeling and the quality of instructional photographs may reduce individual error and may optimize understanding.
Can we measure mesopic pupil size with the cobalt blue light slit-lamp biomicroscopy method? [SEP] can we measure mesopic pupil size with the cobalt blue light slit-lamp biomicroscopy method? the aim of this work is to assess a previously described slit-lamp biomicroscopy-based method (slbm) for measuring pupil diameter and compare it to colvard infrared pupillometry (cip). two examiners performed three repeated measurements with each instrument in 40 healthy eyes. we determined the agreement of slbm and cip, intraobserver and interobserver repeatabilities, and interobserver concordance (kappa) and slbm ability for detecting pupil sizes over 6.0 mm. the mean (±standard deviation [sd]) pupil diameter was 5.81 ± 0.70 mm with slbm and 6.26 ± 0.68 mm with cip (p = 0.01) averaging both examiner's results. intraobserver reproducibility: the width of the 95% loa ranged from 1.79 to 2.30 mm. interobserver reproducibility: the width of the loa ranged from 1.82 to 2.09 mm. sensitivity and specificity of slbm for detection of pupils larger than 6 mm ranged from 55.56% to 73.68% and from 76.19% to 95.45%, respectively. although the slbm is quite repeatable, it underestimates mesopic pupil size and shows a too wide range of agreement with cip. slbm shows low sensitivity in detecting pupils larger than 6 mm, which may be misleading when planning anterior segment surgery.
Should circumcision be performed in childhood? [SEP] caregiver acceptability, and uptake of voluntary medical circumcision among male children under 5 years in gulu city, northern uganda. childhood male circumcision is a key intervention for reducing the transmission of hiv infection. this study assessed the caregiver acceptability, and uptake of voluntary medical circumcision among male children under five years old in gulu city, uganda. male circumcision revisited: a narrative review of techniques, therapeutic indications, and preventive benefits. male circumcision (mc) is a common pediatric operation and is undertaken for religious, cultural, therapeutic, and preventive reasons. the recent criminal sentencing of a uk-based former paediatric surgeon for performing unauthorised childhood circumcisions for cultural and religious purposes-despite having been previously struck off the general medical council medical register for performing unsafe circumcisions-has renewed debate and concern over how societies should regulate this practice. parents' knowledge, attitude and practice regarding childhood circumcision: a cross-sectional study in the central region of sichuan, china. circumcision is commonly performed on males in childhood to prevent urinary tract infections and for religious reasons. the results indicate that performing circumcision at younger ages is beneficial for preventing ascending urinary infections and reducing the need for antibiotic treatment. circumcision is a commonly performed surgical procedure both in childhood and in adults.
Does a colonoscopy after acute diverticulitis affect its management? [SEP] diverticulitis: an update from the age old paradigm. the management of uncomplicated diverticulitis is changing. after an episode of acute diverticulitis, routine colonoscopy has been recommended by a number of societies to exclude the presence of colorectal cancer or presence of alternative diagnosis like ischemic colitis or inflammatory bowel disease for the clinical presentation. further study has questioned the need for endoscopic evaluation for every patient with acute diverticulitis. colonoscopy should be routinely performed after complicated diverticulitis cases, when the clinical presentation is atypical or if there are any diagnostic ambiguity, or patient has other indications for colonoscopy like rectal bleeding or is above 50 years of age without recent colonoscopy. management of the patient with an end colostomy after a hartmann’s procedure for acute diverticulitis can be a challenging clinical scenario. does a colonoscopy after acute diverticulitis affect its management? clinical diagnosis of acute diverticulitis is currently confirmed by an abdominal computerized tomography (ct). our results suggest that colonoscopy does not affect the management of patients with acute diverticulitis nor alter the outcome. the current practice of a routine colonoscopy after acute diverticulitis, diagnosed by typical clinical symptoms and ct needs to be reevaluated.
Do instrumental activities of daily living predict dementia at 1- and 2-year follow-up? [SEP] a two-year observational study to evaluate conversion rates from high- and low-risk patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment to probable alzheimer's disease in a real-world setting. mean changes from baseline in seoul neuropsychological screening battery-dementia version, clinical dementia rating-sum of box, and korean version of the instrumental activities of daily living scores and cortical atrophy index at years 1 and 2 were significantly greater in the high-risk group (p < 0.0001). do instrumental activities of daily living predict dementia at 1- and 2-year follow-up? findings from the development of screening guidelines and diagnostic criteria for predementia alzheimer's disease study. to investigate whether problems in instrumental activities of daily living (iadl) can add to conventionally used clinical measurements in helping to predict a diagnosis of dementia at 1- and 2-year follow-up. structural equation modeling (sem) was used to investigate the relation between iadls and dementia. five hundred thirty-one participants had baseline and 1-year follow-up assessments; 69 (13.0%) of these had developed dementia at 1-year follow-up. at 2-year follow-up, 481 participants were seen, of whom 100 (20.8%) had developed dementia. sem showed that iadl disability could help predict dementia in addition to the measured variables at 1-year follow-up (odds ratio (or) = 2.20, 95% confidence interval (ci) = 1.51-3.13) and 2-year follow-up (or = 2.11, 95% ci = 1.33-3.33). iadl disability is a useful addition to the diagnostic process in a memory clinic setting, indicating who is at higher risk of developing dementia at 1- and 2-year follow-up.
Does the Simultaneous Use of a Neuroendoscope Influence the Incidence of Ventriculoperitoneal Shunt Infection? [SEP] does the simultaneous use of a neuroendoscope influence the incidence of ventriculoperitoneal shunt infection? the relationship between the use of an endoscope during ventriculoperitoneal shunt (vps) procedures and infection remains poorly defined. in this study, we sought to analyze whether the simultaneous use of an endoscope could in fact increase the infection rate associated with vps procedures. this study included 438 vps procedures, 49 in which an endoscope was used (11.2%) and 389 in which an endoscope was not used (88.8%). the infection rates in these 2 main groups were calculated and compared. subsequently, 4 new groups were created, composed of patients with a shunt inserted for the first time (groups 1a and 1b) and patients with a shunt reviewed or inserted for a second time (groups 2a and 2b). groups 1a and 2a comprised patients in whom an endoscope was used simultaneously with vps surgery, and groups 1b and 2b comprised patients in whom an endoscope was not used. these groups were compared to determine the infection rate. the overall infection rate was 18.5%, including 22.4% in the groups in which an endoscope was used and 18% in those in which an endoscope was not used (p = 0.449). in the present study, the use of an endoscope during vps procedures did not increase the risk of surgical infection.
Body perception: do parents, their children, and their children's physicians perceive body image differently? [SEP] body image mediates negative family climate and deteriorating glycemic control for single adolescents with type 1 diabetes. the present study tests whether body image mediates longitudinal links between family climate and changes in adolescent glycemic control. participants reported body image and family climate. nondating adolescents may look to parents for feedback on body image, which affects how they manage the challenges of diabetes. we know that body image matters to adolescents, but for some youth, body image may be the difference between health and serious physical problems. to (i) compare the views of general practitioners (gps) and parents about the causes, consequences and management of childhood overweight/obesity; and (ii) explore the extent to which they can identify overweight/obesity in children. body perception: do parents, their children, and their children's physicians perceive body image differently? to compare children's, parents' and physicians' perceptions of children's body size. we administered a structured questionnaire of body size perception using a descriptive likert scale keyed to body image figures to children ages 12 to 18 years. lower body-esteem was found in older overweight girls, whereas in older overweight boys higher levels of body-esteem were found.
Is there any relationship between streptococcal infection and multiple sclerosis? [SEP] immunogenicity of a seasonal influenza and a pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine in multiple sclerosis patients under disease modifying therapies: a single-center prospective study. is there any relationship between streptococcal infection and multiple sclerosis? multiple sclerosis (ms) is an immune-mediated inflammatory demyelinating disease of uncertain etiology. to understand the effect of past group a streptococcal infection on ms, antistreptolysin o (aso) and antideoxyribonuclease b (adnase b) were measured in 21 patients with relapsing-remitting ms and 21 healthy blood donors by nephelometric assay. these findings indicate that a relationship between multiple sclerosis and streptococcal infections may exist, but to acquire a better understanding of the role of group a streptococci in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis, more studies with animal models are necessary. multiple sclerosis and infectious childhood diseases. to examine a possible relationship between infectious diseases and multiple sclerosis (ms) an enquiry was carried out among 606 ms patients in switzerland. these results are compatible with the hypothesis that the risk of developing multiple sclerosis may be associated with acquiring certain infectious childhood diseases at a later stage in comparison to normal controls. the geographical distribution of multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, rheumatic heart disease and poststreptococcal nephritis in sardinia: climatic and socioeconomic factors. there was a positive correlation of the distribution of ms with the distribution of rheumatic heart disease and poststreptococcal nephritis.
Is the combination with 2-methoxyestradiol able to reduce the dosages of chemotherapeutices in the treatment of human ovarian cancer? [SEP] 
Assessing joint line positions by means of the contralateral knee: a new approach for planning knee revision surgery? [SEP] 
Does the type of tibial component affect mechanical alignment in unicompartmental knee replacement? [SEP] does the type of tibial component affect mechanical alignment in unicompartmental knee replacement? there are a number of factors responsible for the longevity of unicompartmental knee replacements (ukr). these include the magnitude of postoperative alignment and the type of material used. mean postoperative mechanical alignment was significantly closer to neutral in the onlay group (mean=2.8°; 95% ci=2.4°, 3.2°) compared to the inlay group (mean=3.9°; 95% ci=3.4°, 4.4°) (r2=0.65; p=0.003), adjusting for gender, bmi, age, side and preoperative mechanical alignment (fig. further exploration revealed that the thickness of the tibial polyethyelene insert had a significant effect on postoperative alignment when added to the model (r2=0.68; p=0.01). patients who received a metal-backed onlay tibial component obtained better postoperative mechanical alignment compared to those who received all-polyethylene inlay prostheses. patient outcomes in tka surgery can be affected by implant design, alignment or patient-related anatomical factors. the aim of this examination was to investigate the sensitivity of the patello-femoral (pf) and tibio-femoral (tf) contact forces to patient-related anatomical factors, and component position in the different implant types. the sensitivity analysis showed that pf contact forces are mostly affected by patella height (increases up to 67% for one tka type in patella-alta configuration), by an anterior tibial component translation (increases up to 30%), and by patellar component tilting (increases up to 29%); tf contact forces are mostly affected by the anterior displacement of the insertion points of the medial collateral ligament with respect to the reference position (increases up to 48%). component alignment and position, and ligament balance also may influence backside wear as suggested by the great variability of wear patterns seen on like insert retrievals and by kinematic differences observed in fluoroscopic studies of the same implant design.
Injury and poisoning mortality among young men--are there any common factors amenable to prevention? [SEP] injury and poisoning mortality among young men--are there any common factors amenable to prevention? deaths from injury and poisoning (suicide, accidents, undetermined deaths, and homicide) are the major cause of death among young men aged 15-39 years in england and wales and have been increasing in recent years. to describe common characteristics among young men who die from injury and poisoning. we employed a retrospective survey methodology to investigate factors associated with deaths by injury and poisoning among young men aged 15-39 years (n = 268) in merseyside and cheshire during 1995. data were collected from coroner's inquest notes and general practitioner records. the most common cause of death was poisoning by alcohol and drugs (29.1%, n = 78). cases were also more likely to be single compared to the general population (74.2% vs 55.5%). self-destructive behaviour was evident in 77% of deaths (n = 206). alcohol and drug use are important contributory factors to injury and poisoning deaths. more research is needed into the effects of unemployment and being single on the health of young men, and to investigate the motivations behind risk taking and self-destructive behaviour.
Does either obesity or OSA severity influence the response of autotitrating CPAP machines in very obese subjects? [SEP] the body mass index showed complex nonlinear associations with semen volume and sperm morphology, and some parameters peaked in mildly overweight men, while obesity remained associated with impaired semen quality. these findings highlight the importance of considering underlying metabolic conditions, such as obesity, for the assessment of environmental health risks of nms. the subjects were middle aged and mildly obese (50.9±12.3 years of age, body mass index 30.2±6.2). the risk of t2d was higher among males and obese individuals by 33% (aor: 1.33; 95% ci: 1.17, 1.51) and 39% (aor: 1.39; 95% ci: 1.11, 1.75), respectively. participants (n=35) from the obeso cohort (mexico city) were classified by pregestational bmi as normal weight (n=20) or obese (n=15). chymotrypsin-like elastase family member 2a (cela2a), a circulating pancreatic serine protease implicated in metabolic regulation, has been proposed to contribute to these effects, although its regulation in obesity and after metabolic surgery remains unclear. we investigated cela2a expression in gastrointestinal tissues and circulation in relation to obesity and rygb. cela2a exhibits tissue-specific regulation in obesity and following bariatric surgery and may represent a candidate component of gastrointestinal metabolic signaling. the global increase in overweight and obesity among adolescents is a significant public health priority, especially in low- and middle-income countries. to assess and describe the prevalence of overweight, obesity and central adiposity in grade seven adolescents in urban tshwane, south africa, and explore its association with socioeconomic characteristics.
Does the clinical presentation of a prior preterm birth predict risk in a subsequent pregnancy? [SEP] 
Is the Distance Worth It? [SEP] 
Aripiprazole: a new risk factor for pathological gambling? [SEP] problem gambling associated with aripiprazole: a nested case-control study in a first-episode psychosis program. aripiprazole has been linked to cases of problem gambling (pbg), but evidence supporting this association remains preliminary. in the univariable conditional logistic regression analysis, the use of aripiprazole was associated with an increased risk of pbg (odds ratio [or] 15.2; 95% confidence interval [ci] 2.1-670.5). findings from this study suggest that fep patients with a gambling history, problematic or not, may be at increased risk of developing pbg when receiving aripiprazole. aripiprazole: a new risk factor for pathological gambling? another dopamine agonist, aripiprazole, could be a new risk factor. based on a cohort of 166 pathological gamblers starting treatment in our department, data of each of the 8 patients treated by aripiprazole at inclusion were analyzed. the patients involved were schizophrenic or bipolar, mostly young men with a history of addictive disorders and regular gambling prior to the prescription of aripiprazole. the probability that pathological gambling is actually due to aripiprazole is "possible" in 7 cases out of 8, and "doubtful" in one. dopamine partial agonist mechanism of aripiprazole could explain the occurrence of pathological gambling.
Immune suppression by lysosomotropic amines and cyclosporine on T-cell responses to minor and major histocompatibility antigens: does synergy exist? [SEP] immune suppression by lysosomotropic amines and cyclosporine on t-cell responses to minor and major histocompatibility antigens: does synergy exist? using murine models, we have shown that the lysosomotropic amine, chloroquine, is effective in the prevention of graft-versus-host disease (gvhd) mediated by donor t cells reactive with recipient minor histocompatibility antigens (mihcs). because lysosomotropic amines can suppress major histocompatibility complex (mhc) class ii antigen presentation, their mechanism of action is potentially different from current immune suppressant drugs used to control gvhd such as cyclosporine. we investigated the use of cyclosporine and the lysosomotropic amines chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine in combination for additive or synergistic immunosuppression on t-cell responses in vitro to mihc and mhc in mice. we found that similar concentrations of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine suppress the t-cell response to mihc in mice (c57bl/6 anti-balb.b) and that lysosomotropic amines in combination with cyclosporine result in synergistic suppression of a proliferative response to mihc. similar suppression and synergy appear to be present in an alloreactive response (c57bl/6 anti-balb/c). direct inhibition by chloroquine of t-cell proliferative responses induced by anti-cd3epsilon in the absence of antigen-presenting cells is present at higher concentrations than that required to suppress responses to mihc or mhc. chloroquine appears to induce decreased t-cell viability at high concentrations. at lower concentrations (<25 microg/ml), chloroquine can also decrease the ability of antigen-presenting cells to stimulate an a c57bl/6 anti-balb/c t-cell response and can inhibit mhc class ii expression after activation with lipopolysaccharide. lysosomotropic amines in combination with cyclosporine appear to be synergistic in the suppression of t-cell proliferation to mihc and mhc.
Does induction chemotherapy have a role in the management of nasopharyngeal carcinoma? [SEP] hot spots and trends related to chemotherapy in nasopharyngeal carcinoma [2014-2024]: a bibliometric study. chemotherapy has played an essential role in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (npc) management since the 1980s, when its radiosensitizing effects were first recognized. real-world data on the efficacy and toxicity of induction chemotherapy in locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma in a non-endemic population. induction chemotherapy (ict) is critical for managing locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma (la-npc), but real-world data on its efficacy and toxicity are limited. case report: unresectable recurrent nasopharyngeal cancer treated with immuno oncology. prognostic value of skull base foramen invasion subclassification in t category modification and induction chemotherapy management for nasopharyngeal carcinoma: post-hoc analysis of a dual-center retrospective cohort study. role of chemotherapy in patients with nasopharynx carcinoma treated with radiotherapy (mac-npc): an updated individual patient data network meta-analysis. the meta-analysis of chemotherapy for nasopharynx carcinoma (mac-npc) collaborative group previously showed that the addition of adjuvant chemotherapy to concomitant chemoradiotherapy had the highest survival benefit of the studied treatment regimens in nasopharyngeal carcinoma. in this updated network meta-analysis, the addition of either induction chemotherapy or adjuvant chemotherapy to chemoradiotherapy improved overall survival over chemoradiotherapy alone in nasopharyngeal carcinoma. early stage and locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma treatment from present to future: where are we and where are we going?
Is Chaalia/Pan Masala harmful for health? [SEP] is chaalia/pan masala harmful for health? practices and knowledge of children of schools in mahmoodabad and chanesar goth, karachi. to determine the practices and knowledge of harmful effects regarding use of chaalia and pan masala in three schools of mahmoodabad and chanesar goth, jamshed town, karachi, pakistan. along with demographic data, questions regarding frequency of chaalia and pan masala use, practices of this habit in friends and family and place of procurement of these substances, were inquired. knowledge was assessed about harmful effects and its source of information. the frequency of use of any brand of chaalia was found to be 94% and that of pan masala was 73.8%. chaalia was considered harmful for health by 96% and pan masala by 60%. knowledge about established harmful effects was variable. knowledge about harmful effects was high in both "daily" and "less than daily users". the frequency of habits of chaalia and pan masala chewing, by school children in lower socio-economic areas is extremely high.
Does multi-modal cervical physical therapy improve tinnitus in patients with cervicogenic somatic tinnitus? [SEP] does multi-modal cervical physical therapy improve tinnitus in patients with cervicogenic somatic tinnitus? tinnitus can be related to many different aetiologies such as hearing loss or a noise trauma, but it can also be related to the somatosensory system of the cervical spine, called cervicogenic somatic tinnitus (cst). case studies suggest a positive effect of cervical spine treatment on tinnitus complaints in patients with cst, but no experimental studies are available. to investigate the effect of a multimodal cervical physical therapy treatment on tinnitus complaints in patients with cst. randomized controlled trial. patients with a combination of severe subjective tinnitus (tinnitus functional index (tfi): 25-90 points) and neck complaints (neck bournemouth questionnaire (nbq) > 14 points). all patients received cervical physical therapy for 6 weeks (12 sessions). immediately after treatment, 53% (n = 38) experienced substantial improvement of tinnitus. this effect was maintained in 24% of patients after follow-up at six weeks. cervical physical therapy can have a positive effect on subjective tinnitus complaints in patients with a combination of tinnitus and neck complaints.
Is HIV/STD control in Jamaica making a difference? [SEP] is hiv/std control in jamaica making a difference? to assess the impact of the comprehensive hiv/std control program established in jamaica since the late 1980s on the hiv/aids epidemic. aids case reports, hiv testing of blood donors, antenatal clinic attenders (anc), food service workers, sexually transmitted disease (std) clinic attenders, female prostitutes, homosexuals and other groups were used to monitor the hiv/aids epidemic. the annual aids incidence rate in jamaica increased only marginally in the past three years from 18.5 per 100000 population to 21.4 in 1997. hiv prevalence in the general population groups tested has been about 1% or less. among those at high risk, hiv prevalence rates have risen to 6.3% (95% confidence interval 5.0-8.0) in std clinic attenders, around 10% and 21% in female prostitutes in kingston and montego bay respectively and approximately 30% among homosexuals. women ever having used condoms increased from 51% in 1988 to 62.5% in 1992 and 73% in 1994 and 1996 (p< 0.001), while condom use with a non-regular partner increased from 37% in 1992 to 73% in 1996 (p= 0.006). condom use among men was high over the period: around 81% had ever used condoms and 77% used them with non-regular partners. gay men, inner-city adults and adolescents aged 12-14 years all reported increases in condom use while condom sales and distribution increased from around 2 million in 1985 to 10 million in 1995. hiv/std control measures appear to have slowed the hiv/aids epidemic in jamaica, however a significant minority of persons continue to have unprotected sex in high risk situations.
Are even impaired fasting blood glucose levels preoperatively associated with increased mortality after CABG surgery? [SEP] are even impaired fasting blood glucose levels preoperatively associated with increased mortality after cabg surgery? impaired fasting glucose (ifg) below the diagnostic threshold for diabetes mellitus (dm) is associated with macrovascular pathology and increased mortality after percutaneous coronary interventions. the study goal was to determine whether pre-operative fasting blood glucose (fb-glu) is associated with an increased mortality after coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg). during 2001-03, 1895 patients underwent primary cabg [clinical dm (cdm) in 440/1895; complete data on fb-glu for n=1375/1455]. using pre-operative fb-glu, non-diabetics were categorized as having normal fb-glu (<5.6 mmol/l), ifg (5.6< or =fb-glu<6.1 mmol/l), or suspected dm (sdm) (> or =6.1 mmol/l). fb-glu was normal in 59%. the relative risks of 30 day and 1 year mortality compared with patients with normal fb-glu was 1.7 [95% confidence interval (ci): 0.5-5.5] and 2.9 (ci: 0.8-11.2) with ifg, 2.8 (ci: 1.1-7.2) and 1.9 (ci: 0.5-6.3) with sdm vs. 1.8 (ci: 0.8-4.0) and 1.6 (ci: 0.6-4.3) if cdm, respectively. the receiver operator characteristic area for the continuous variable fb-glu and 1 year mortality was 0.65 (p=0.002). the elevated risk of death after cabg surgery known previously to be associated with cdm seems also to be shared by a group of similar size that includes patients with ifg and undiagnosed dm.
Does positron emission tomography change management in primary rectal cancer? [SEP] pet/mri and pet/ct hybrid imaging of rectal cancer - description and initial observations from the rectopet (rectal cancer trial on pet/mri/ct) study. the rectopet study investigating the role of pet/ct and pet/mri for preoperative staging of primary rectal cancer patients will provide novel data that clarify the value of adding hybrid to conventional imaging, and the role of pet/ct versus pet/mri. positron emission tomography has the most significant impact in the change of management overall, and its use in restaging advanced rectal cancer should be further explored. the aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis was to compare the role of fdg-positron emission tomography (pet) or pet/computed tomography (ct) with conventional imaging in the detection of primary and nodal disease in anal cancer, and to assess the impact of pet or pet/ct on the management of anal cancer. routine use of positron-emission tomography/computed tomography for staging of primary colorectal cancer: does it affect clinical management? the use of positron emission tomography-computed tomography (pet/ct) for the preoperative staging of patients with colon and rectal cancer has increased steadily over the last decade. the value of fdg positron emission tomography/computerised tomography (pet/ct) in pre-operative staging of colorectal cancer: a systematic review and economic evaluation. positron-emission tomography/computed tomography (pet/ct) in the initial staging of primary rectal cancer. the aim of this study was to assess the role of (18)flourodeoxyglucose positron-emission tomography/computed tomography (pet/ct) in the initial staging of primary rectal adenocarcinoma. positron-emission tomography/computed tomography provides additional information to conventional staging in primary rectal cancer.
Can you deliver accurate tidal volume by manual resuscitator? [SEP] can you deliver accurate tidal volume by manual resuscitator? one of the problems with manual resuscitators is the difficulty in achieving accurate volume delivery. this study was designed to compare tidal volumes delivered by the squeezing method, physical characteristics and education and practice levels. ventilation was delivered with a manual resuscitator connected to a microspirometer and volumes were measured. the mean (standard deviation) volumes for the one-handed method were 592.84 ml (sd 117.39), two-handed 644.24 ml (sd 144.7) and two-handed half-compression 458.31 ml (sd 120.91) (p<0.01). tidal volume delivered by two hands was significantly greater than that delivered by one hand (r = 0.398, p<0.01). there were slight increases in tidal volume with education and practice, but correlation was weak (r = 0.213, r = 0.281, r = 0.131, p<0.01). the tidal volume delivered by a manual resuscitator shows large variations. there were significant differences in the volume delivered by compression methods, but physical characteristics are not a predictor of tidal volume delivery. the manual resuscitator is not a suitable device for accurate ventilation.
Can increases in the cigarette tax rate be linked to cigarette retail prices? [SEP] can increases in the cigarette tax rate be linked to cigarette retail prices? solving mysteries related to the cigarette pricing mechanism in china. to explain china's cigarette pricing mechanism and the role of the chinese state tobacco monopoly administration (stma) on cigarette pricing and taxation. published government tobacco tax documentation and statistics published by the chinese stma are used to analyse the interrelations among industry profits, taxes and retail price of cigarettes in china. the 2009 excise tax increase on cigarettes in china has not translated into higher retail prices because the chinese stma used its policy authority to ensure that retail cigarette prices did not change. as a result, the 2009 excise tax increase in china has resulted in higher tax revenue for the government and lower profits for the tobacco industry, with no increase in the retail price of cigarettes for consumers. numerous studies have found that taxation is one of the most effective policy instruments for tobacco control. however, these findings come from countries that have market economies where market forces determine prices and influence how cigarette taxes are passed to the consumers in retail prices. china's tobacco industry is not a market economy; therefore, non-market forces and the current chinese tobacco monopoly system determine cigarette prices. the result is that tax increases do not necessarily get passed on to the retail price.
Vertical lines in distal esophageal mucosa (VLEM): a true endoscopic manifestation of esophagitis in children? [SEP] vertical lines in distal esophageal mucosa (vlem): a true endoscopic manifestation of esophagitis in children? we observed an endoscopic abnormally in a group of children with histological esophagitis. we termed this finding "vertical lines in esophageal mucosa" (vlem). we examined the relationship between the presence of vlem and significant histologic changes in esophageal mucosal biopsies. between january 1, 1992, and august 31, 1994, the senior author (jff) performed 255 esophageal biopsies. the procedure reports, available endoscopic photographs, and histology reports were reviewed to establish the endoscopic and histologic appearance of the esophageal mucosa. the esophageal mucosa had a normal appearance on 160 endoscopic studies (group 1) and vlem were the only mucosal abnormalities in 41 endoscopies (group 2). most patients in group 2 had eosinophilic esophagitis (34 of 41, 83%, specificity 0.85, sensitivity 0.5, p > 0.001) which was of moderate to severe intensity (31 of 34, 91.2%, specificity 0.88, sensitivity 0.73, p < 0.001). histology usually demonstrated moderate to severe inflammation when vlem were present. vlem may be a highly specific endoscopic feature of esophagitis in children.
Does hypoglycaemia increase the risk of cardiovascular events? [SEP] pooled analyses showed no excess risk of serious adverse events leading to drug discontinuation, aki, uti, symptomatic hypotension, hypoglycemia or ketoacidosis. type 1 diabetes (t1dm) is associated with elevated cardiovascular (cv) risk, often exacerbated by the rising prevalence of obesity. safety data were mixed: the risk of severe hypoglycemia was not increased, whereas time below range and gastrointestinal adverse events were more frequent. development and validation of an interpretable machine learning model for predicting in-hospital hypoglycemia in adults with type 1 diabetes mellitus: a multicenter retrospective study. in-hospital hypoglycemia remains a serious and potentially life-threatening complication among adults with type 1 diabetes mellitus (t1dm), yet reliable and interpretable prediction tools for chinese inpatients are lacking. we aimed to develop and validate an interpretable machine learning model using multicenter inpatient data to predict the risk of in-hospital hypoglycemia in adults with t1dm, and to enhance clinical understanding of key predictors. outcomes included all-cause mortality, myocardial infarction, cerebral infarction, heart failure (hf), adapted major adverse cardiovascular events (mace-all cv clinical outcomes), chronic kidney disease (ckd), and all-cause hospitalisation, plus safety outcomes (hypoglycemia and dka). dka incidence was not increased, while hypoglycemia risk was lower with glp-1 therapy (hr 0.72, 95% ci 0.55-0.95). secondary outcomes included cardiovascular mortality, all-cause mortality, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, hospitalisation for heart failure, and adverse events. the advanced aid system improves glycaemic control without increasing the risk of hypoglycaemia in inpatients receiving nutrition support, particularly in patients with acute severe pancreatitis.
Does the radiographic transition zone correlate with the level of aganglionosis on the specimen in Hirschsprung's disease? [SEP] does the radiographic transition zone correlate with the level of aganglionosis on the specimen in hirschsprung's disease? the correlation between radiographic transition zone on contrast enema in hirschsprung's disease and the total length of aganglionosis is known to be inaccurate. the aim of our study was to analyse this correlation more precisely to improve preoperative planning of the corrective surgery. from 1998 to 2009, 79 patients were operated on for hirschsprung's disease. all available preoperative contrast enemas (n = 61) had been single blind reviewed by the same radiologist who defined the radiographic transition zone when present in vertebral level. four groups were determined (rectal, rectosigmoid, long segment, and absence of transition zone) and by kappa coefficient of agreement correlated to the length of aganglionosis in the pathological report. radiological findings were concordant with the specimen in pathology in 8 cases of 19 in rectal form (42 %), in 20 cases of 35 in rectosigmoid form (57 %), in all 6 cases of long-segment form (100 %), in the 2 cases of total colonic form (100 %) with a global agreement of 58.1 %, κ = 0.39 ci [0.24; 0.57]. correlation between level of radiographic transition zone on contrast enema and length of aganglionosis remains low. systematic preoperative biopsy by coelioscopy or ombilical incision is mandatory.
Is dexamethasone an effective alternative to oral prednisone in the treatment of pediatric asthma exacerbations? [SEP] dexamethasone versus prednisone or prednisolone for acute pediatric asthma exacerbations in the emergency department: a meta-analysis. this study evaluates the efficacy and tolerability of dexamethasone (dex) as an alternative to prednisone/prednisolone (pred) for the treatment of pediatric asthma exacerbations in emergency department (ed). dexamethasone is a suitable alternative to pred for the treatment of pediatric asthma exacerbation in ed. randomized trial of dexamethasone versus prednisone for children with acute asthma exacerbations. to determine whether 2 doses of dexamethasone is as effective as 5 days of prednisolone/prednisone therapy in improving symptoms and quality of life of children with asthma exacerbations admitted to the emergency department (ed). we conducted a randomized, noninferiority trial including patients aged 1-14 years who presented to the ed with acute asthma to compare the efficacy of 2 doses of dexamethasone (0.6 mg/kg/dose, experimental treatment) vs a 5-day course of prednisolone/prednisone (1.5 mg/kg/d, followed by 1 mg/kg/d on days 2-5, conventional treatment). two doses of dexamethasone may be an effective alternative to a 5-day course of prednisone/prednisolone for asthma exacerbations, as measured by persistence of symptoms and quality of life at day 7. clinicaltrialsregister.eu: 2013-003145-42. is dexamethasone an effective alternative to oral prednisone in the treatment of pediatric asthma exacerbations? we reviewed the literature to determine if there is sufficient evidence that dexamethasone can be used as an effective alternative in the treatment of pediatric asthma exacerbations in the inpatient setting. the current literature suggests that dexamethasone can be used as an effective alternative to prednisone in the treatment of mild to moderate acute asthma exacerbations in children, with the added benefits of improved compliance, palatability, and cost.
Mammographic screening in Sami speaking municipalities and a control group. Are early outcome measures influenced by ethnicity? [SEP] 
Do Electrochemiluminescence Assays Improve Prediction of Time to Type 1 Diabetes in Autoantibody-Positive TrialNet Subjects? [SEP] do electrochemiluminescence assays improve prediction of time to type 1 diabetes in autoantibody-positive trialnet subjects? to explore whether electrochemiluminescence (ecl) assays can help improve prediction of time to type 1 diabetes in the trialnet autoantibody-positive population. trialnet subjects who were positive for one or more autoantibodies (microinsulin autoantibody, gad65 autoantibody [gada], ia-2a, and znt8a) with available ecl-insulin autoantibody (iaa) and ecl-gada data at their initial visit were analyzed; after a median follow-up of 24 months, 177 of these 1,287 subjects developed diabetes. univariate analyses showed that autoantibodies by radioimmunoassays (rias), ecl-iaa, ecl-gada, age, sex, number of positive autoantibodies, presence of hla dr3/4-dq8 genotype, hba1c, and oral glucose tolerance test (ogtt) measurements were all significantly associated with progression to diabetes. subjects who were ecl positive had a risk of progression to diabetes within 6 years of 58% compared with 5% for the ecl-negative subjects (p < 0.0001). multivariate cox proportional hazards models were compared, with the base model including age, sex, ogtt measurements, and number of positive autoantibodies by rias. the model with positivity for ecl-gada and/or ecl-iaa was the best, and factors that remained significantly associated with time to diabetes were area under the curve (auc) c-peptide, fasting c-peptide, auc glucose, number of positive autoantibodies by rias, and ecl positivity. adding ecl to the diabetes prevention trial risk score (dptrs) improved the receiver operating characteristic curves with auc of 0.83 (p < 0.0001). ecl assays improved the ability to predict time to diabetes in these autoantibody-positive relatives at risk for developing diabetes. these findings might be helpful in the design and eligibility criteria for prevention trials in the future.
Assessment of appropriate antimicrobial prescribing: do experts agree? [SEP] this guideline, developed by the european society of clinical microbiology and infectious diseases, provides evidence-based recommendations for the clinical evaluation and management of patients with reported antibiotic allergies. measuring appropriate antibiotic prescribing in acute hospitals: development of a national audit tool through a delphi consensus. this study developed a patient-level audit tool to assess the appropriateness of antibiotic prescribing in acute national health service (nhs) hospitals in the uk. accepted variables were used to develop an audit tool to determine the extent of appropriateness of antibiotic prescribing at the individual patient level in acute nhs hospitals through infection expert consensus based on the results of a delphi process. assessment of appropriate antimicrobial prescribing: do experts agree? twenty-four doctors specialized in infectious diseases or clinical microbiology (16 specialists and 8 residents) from five hospitals were asked to assess the appropriateness of antimicrobial agents prescribed for a broad spectrum of indications in 56 paper cases. doctors specialized in infectious diseases and clinical microbiology assess the appropriateness of antimicrobials prescribed for a broad spectrum of indications with acceptable agreement and validity, regardless of their experience or hospital of employment. european surveillance of antimicrobial consumption (esac): disease-specific quality indicators for outpatient antibiotic prescribing. conclusion all proposed disease-specific quality indicators for outpatient antibiotic prescribing have face validity and are potentially applicable. european surveillance of antimicrobial consumption (esac): quality indicators for outpatient antibiotic use in europe.
Is there a favorable subset of patients with prostate cancer who develop oligometastases? [SEP] 
Does screening or surveillance for primary hepatocellular carcinoma with ultrasonography improve the prognosis of patients? [SEP] eligible cohort studies and case series (≥4 patients) adopting es/gs as primary diagnostic tools were included. these findings support the use of next-generation sequencing to improve diagnostic outcomes in this vulnerable patient population. this review highlights preclinical and clinical advances of recent years that contribute to our understanding of pathomechanisms, risk stratification, treatment and potential targets in ssc-p(a)h. as ssc-ph emerges from a complex interplay of immune dysregulation, endothelial injury, metabolic reprogramming and fibroproliferative remodeling, an integrated approach to early detection, combining refined cardiac imaging metrics, circulating and omics-based biomarkers, and clinical stratifiers such as age and timing of symptom onset, is increasingly feasible. exercise testing and detailed right heart phenotyping yield promise for early disease diagnosis. diagnostic molecular testing could be valuable but also misleading, if not interpreted in the right context, as some retroperitoneal sarcomas exhibit alterations that can have overlapping molecular alterations with mullerian adenosarcoma, such as prognostic and predict value of peripheral blood circulating tumor cells programmed death-ligand 1 expression and f-18-fluorodeoxyglucose metabolic parameters in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors. to investigate the concordance and correlation between programmed death-ligand 1 (pd-l1) expression in tumor tissue and circulating tumor cells (ctcs), explore the intrinsic link between epithelial-mesenchymal transition (emt) and pd-l1 expression in ctcs, and examine the predictive value of fdg metabolic parameters, ctcs and their pd-l1 expression for early tumor response and long-term prognosis in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) receiving immune checkpoint inhibitor (ici) monotherapy or ici combined with chemotherapy as first-line treatment. tumor early response was monitored using response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (recist criteria) at 8 weeks after ici treatment, and the differences in ctc pd-l1 expression, fdg metabolic parameters, and clinical data between early respongders and non-responders were analyzed. preliminarily, pd-l1+ mesenchymal ctcs, as an exploratory biomarker, were significantly associated with pfs and os and may provide prognostic information complementary to conventional tissue-based pd-l1 assessment and fdg metabolic parameters. these findings require further validation in larger cohorts using harmonized detection platforms.
Department of Transportation vs self-reported data on motor vehicle collisions and driving convictions for stroke survivors: do they agree? [SEP] department of transportation vs self-reported data on motor vehicle collisions and driving convictions for stroke survivors: do they agree? research on stroke survivors' driving safety has typically used either self-reports or government records, but the extent to which the 2 may differ is not known. we compared government records and self-reports of motor vehicle collisions and driving convictions in a sample of stroke survivors. the 56 participants were originally recruited for a prospective study on driving and community re-integration post-stroke; the study population consisted of moderately impaired stroke survivors without severe communication disorders who had been referred for a driving assessment. the driving records of the 56 participants for the 5 years before study entry and the 1-year study period were acquired with written consent from the ministry of transportation of ontario (mto), canada. self-reports of collisions and convictions were acquired via a semistructured interview and then compared with the mto records. for 7 (13.5%) the mto records did not match the self-reports regarding collision involvement, and for 9 (17.3%) the mto records did not match self-reports regarding driving convictions. when both sources of data were consulted, up to 56 percent more accidents and up to 46 percent more convictions were identified in the study population in the 5 years before study entry compared to when either source was used alone. in our population of stroke survivors, self-reports of motor vehicle collisions and driving convictions differed from government records. in future studies, the use of both government and self-reported data would ensure a more accurate picture of driving safety post-stroke.
Neoadjuvant Imatinib in Locally Advanced Gastrointestinal stromal Tumours, Will Kit Mutation Analysis Be a Pathfinder? [SEP] neoadjuvant imatinib in locally advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumours, will kit mutation analysis be a pathfinder? longer duration of neoadjuvant (na) imatinib (im) used for locally advanced (la) gastrointestinal stromal tumours (gist) is not based on biology of the tumour reflected by kit mutation analysis. la or locally recurrent (lr) gist treated with na im from may 2008 to march 2015 from a prospective database were included in the analysis. archived formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues (ffpe) were used for testing kit exons 9, 11, 13 and 17 by pcr. one hundred twenty-five patients with la or lr gist were treated with na im. forty-five patients (36 %) had undergone c-kit mutation testing. eighty-four per cent exon 11 and 75 % non-exon 11 mutants were surgical candidates. patients undergoing surgery had significantly improved event free survival (efs) (p < 0.001) compared to patients not undergoing surgery, with the same trend seen in os (p = 0.021). patients with a sd on response to na im had a lower efs (p = 0.076) and os compared to patients achieving cr/pr. there were no differences between the various exon variants in terms of outcomes and responses conclusion: upfront evaluation of kit mutation status may help us in delineating separate treatment strategies for potentially biologically different tumours and assessing the correct timing of surgery for this subset of gist.
Does the lipid-lowering peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors ligand bezafibrate prevent colon cancer in patients with coronary artery disease? [SEP] does the lipid-lowering peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors ligand bezafibrate prevent colon cancer in patients with coronary artery disease? epidemiologic studies have suggested that hypertriglyceridemia and insulin resistance are related to the development of colon cancer. nuclear peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (ppar), which play a central role in lipid and glucose metabolism, had been hypothesized as being involved in colon cancerogenesis. in animal studies the lipid-lowering ppar ligand bezafibrate suppressed colonic tumors. however, the effect of bezafibrate on colon cancer development in humans is unknown. therefore, we proposed to investigate a possible preventive effect of bezafibrate on the development of colon cancer in patients with coronary artery disease during a 6-year follow-up. our population included 3011 patients without any cancer diagnosis who were enrolled in the randomized, double blind bezafibrate infarction prevention (bip) study. development of colon cancer was recorded in 25 patients: in 8 (0.53%) patients from the bezafibrate group vs. 17 (1.13%) from the placebo group, (fisher's exact test: one side p = 0.05; two side p = 0.07). on multivariable analysis the colon cancer risk in patients who received bezafibrate tended to be lower with a hazard ratio of 0.47 and 95% confidence interval 0.2-1.1. our data, derived from patients with coronary artery disease, support the hypothesis regarding a possible preventive effect of bezafibrate on the development of colon cancer.
Very high serum CA 19-9 levels: a contraindication to pancreaticoduodenectomy? [SEP] 
Perioperative care in an animal model for training in abdominal surgery: is it necessary a preoperative fasting? [SEP] 
Are physicians aware of the side effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors? [SEP] all angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (acei) related cascades demonstrated increasing asrs with higher doses. this case highlights the potential relationship between antihypertensive drugs and mmp, of which clinicians should be aware to accurately diagnose and promptly relieve patients' pain. however, these adverse effects are less well-known for angiotensin receptor blockers (arbs). medical confounders were angiotensin i-converting enzyme inhibitors, statins, corticosteroids, vegf inhibitors including bevacizumab and aflibercept, lithium, amphotericin b, adefovir, nsaids, cisplatin, and calcineurin inhibitors. pharmacogenomic knowledge and awareness among diverse patients treated with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. older adults with heart failure often experience adverse drug events with high doses of heart failure medications. angiotensin receptor blocker-related sprue-like enteropathy: review of food and drug administration adverse event reporting system. angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor-induced angioedema of the small bowel: a diagnostic dilemma. angioedema of the tongue, oral mucosa, and pharynx is a highly visible and easily diagnoseable side effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (acei). more broadly, family and emergency medicine physicians, surgeons, radiologists, and internists should be aware of this rare side effect caused by this commonly prescribed medication to avert unnecessary medical treatments and procedures.
Are physician estimates of asthma severity less accurate in black than in white patients? [SEP] 
Does laparoscopic surgery decrease the risk of atrial fibrillation after foregut surgery? [SEP] does laparoscopic surgery decrease the risk of atrial fibrillation after foregut surgery? atrial fibrillation, which occurs in 12% of all major foregut surgeries, can prolong hospital stay and increase morbidity. minimally invasive techniques in foregut surgery have been suggested to cause less tissue trauma. we examined the factors associated with new-onset atrial fibrillation after foregut surgery at our institution. we retrospectively examined the records of 154 adult patients who underwent major foregut surgery which included esophagectomy, partial or total gastrectomy, redo heller myotomy, redo or transthoracic fundoplications. laparoscopic (p = 0.004) and nonthoracic surgeries (p = 0.01) were associated with lower risk of atrial fibrillation. patients with atrial fibrillation had received more fluid (6.5 +/- 2.8 liters versus 5.3 +/- 2.0 liters) and had longer operations (370 +/- 103 min versus 362 +/- 142 min), none of which were statistically significant. multivariate analysis revealed an association of atrial fibrillation with age (or 1.08, 95% ci 1.02-1.14, p = 0.01), and laparoscopic surgery (or 0.09, 95% ci 0.01-0.95, p = 0.04) after adjusting for surgery type. laparoscopic surgery is associated with lower risk of atrial fibrillation in foregut surgery. development of atrial fibrillation is associated with increased length of intensive care stay.
The Main Gate Syndrome: a new format in mass-casualty victim "surge" management? [SEP] [the main gate syndrome: a new format in mass-casualty victim "surge" management?]. recent suicide bombings pose the novel problem for trauma centers of the massive simultaneous arrival of many gravely wounded patients. we report the experience of the french-german military trauma group, a level 2 trauma center, in afghanistan during the wave of suicide bombings in february 2007. fourteen casualties were received. a first triage was carried out by the u s army level i group prior to evacuation. four cases (iss>25) were re-categorized and underwent emergency surgical procedures. suicide bombing in crowded locations near an evacuation hospital may overwhelm the medical resources of the receiving center. it has been referred to as "the main gate syndrome." we introduced the novel concept of a semi-evacuation hospital or receiving center where a second surgical triage was carried out. in the setting of mass casualties, emergency ultrasound exam was shown to be a valuable and effective tool by virtue of its mobility, reproducibility, and immediate results.
Do communication disorders extend to musical messages? [SEP] 
Do patients with rheumatoid arthritis established on methotrexate and folic acid 5 mg daily need to continue folic acid supplements long term? [SEP] do patients with rheumatoid arthritis established on methotrexate and folic acid 5 mg daily need to continue folic acid supplements long term? it is postulated that some aspects of methotrexate toxicity may be related to its action as an anti-folate. folic acid (fa) is often given as an adjunct to methotrexate therapy, but there is no conclusive proof that it decreases the toxicity of methotrexate and there is a theoretical risk that it may decrease the efficacy of methotrexate. to look at the effect of stopping fa supplementation in uk rheumatoid arthritis (ra) patients established on methotrexate <20 mg weekly and fa 5 mg daily, to report all toxicity (including absolute changes in haematological and liver enzyme indices) and to report changes in the efficacy of methotrexate. in a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 75 patients who were established on methotrexate <20 mg weekly and fa 5 mg daily were asked to stop their fa and were randomized to one of two groups: placebo or fa 5 mg daily. patients were evaluated for treatment toxicity and efficacy before entry and then at intervals of 3 months for 1 yr. overall, 25 (33%) patients concluded the study early, eight (21%) in the group remaining on fa and 17 (46%) in the placebo group (p = 0.02). two patients in the placebo group discontinued because of neutropenia. it is important to continue fa supplementation over the long term in patients on methotrexate and fa in order to prevent them discontinuing treatment because of mouth ulcers or nausea and vomiting. our data suggest that fa supplementation is also helpful in preventing neutropenia, with very little loss of efficacy of methotrexate.
Can infundibular height predict the clearance of lower pole calyceal stone after extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy? [SEP] can infundibular height predict the clearance of lower pole calyceal stone after extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy? to evaluate the efficacy of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (swl) on lower calyceal calculi in relation to the renal anatomical factors and determine which of these factors can be used to select patients who will benefit from swl. we analyzed retrospectively 78 patients with single radiopaque lower calyceal stones treated with swl. evaluation of the effects of relationships between main spatial lower pole calyceal anatomic factors on the success of shock-wave lithotripsy in patients with lower pole kidney stones. to evaluate the effects of lower pole calyceal anatomy on lower pole stone clearance after shock-wave lithotripsy (swl). pre-shock-wave lithotripsy intravenous urograms were used to determine the lower pole infundibular width and length, lower pole infundibulopelvic (lpip) angle, caliceal pelvic height (cph), and lower infundibular length-to-width ratio. [usefulness of lower ihfundibular length-to-diameter ratio as a predictor of lower pole stone clearance after extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy; clinical research with two lithotriptors]. lower pole renal stones are well known to exhibit a poor stone clearance rate following extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (eswl). in the present study, we analyzed several anatomical factors as predictors of lower pole stone clearance that may be used to indicate the usefulness and the universality of eswl in such patients with two different lithotriptors. especially, the lower infundibular length-to-diameter ratio is potentially useful and a universal predictor regardless of the kind of lithotriptors at least in patients with a lower pole radiopaque stone 2 cm.
Does lung ischemia and reperfusion have an impact on coronary flow? [SEP] ischemia/reperfusion (i/r) injury is a pathological event that results in reperfusion due to low blood flow to an organ. however, reperfusion may further induce cellular damage and dysfunction known as cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury (ciri). there is an ongoing debate on the extension of reperfusion-related microvascular damage (mvd) throughout the remote noninfarcted myocardial regions in patients with st-elevation myocardial infarction (stemi) that undergo primary percutaneous intervention (ppci). the aim of this study was to elucidate the impact of reperfusion on remote microcirculatory territory by analyzing hemodynamic alterations in the nonculprit-vessel in relation to reperfusion. peri-reperfusion temporal changes in hemodynamic parameters were obtained in angiographically normal nonculprit vessels before and 1-h after reopening of the culprit vessel. intracoronary pressure and flow velocity data were compared using pairwise analyses (before and 1-h after reperfusion). in the non-culprit vessel, compared to the pre-reperfusion state, mean resting average peak velocity (33.4 ± 9.4 to 25.0 ± 4.9 cm/s, p < 0.001) and mean hyperemic average peak velocity (53.5 ± 14.4 to 42.1 ± 10.66 cm/s, p = 0.001) significantly decreased; whereas baseline (3.2 ± 1.0 to 4.0 ± 1.0 mmhg.cm reperfusion-related microvascular injury extends to involve remote myocardial territory in relation to the magnitude of the adjacent infarction and infarct-zone mvd. on the other hand, ischemic/reperfusion (i/r) injury is a pathological event resulting from low blood flow to an organ and followed by reperfusion. although lncrna metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1 (malat1) is reported to be highly expressed in myocardial ischemia reperfusion (ir) injury, the specific mechanism remains largely unknown. primary percutaneous coronary intervention is used to restore blood flow in the infarct-related coronary artery, followed by immediate stenting to prevent reocclusion.
Transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN): a role for polymorphisms in the beta-adrenergic receptor (ADRB) encoding genes? [SEP] transient tachypnea of the newborn (ttn): a role for polymorphisms in the beta-adrenergic receptor (adrb) encoding genes? transient tachypnea of the newborn (ttn) is a common cause of early respiratory distress in the neonatal period of term infants. delayed resorption of foetal lung fluid after birth is considered as the main pathophysiological factor. as resorption of foetal lung fluid is a catecholamine dependent process, we aimed at investigating, whether beta1- and beta2-adrenoreceptor (adrb1, adrb2) polymorphisms, known to alter catecholamine activity, are operative in ttn. dna was collected for genotyping from 73 term newborns suffering from ttn and 55 healthy controls from a caucasian cohort. ttn infants were more likely to be male (70% vs. 49%; p < 0.05), had a lower mean birthweight (3120 +/- 450 vs. 3396 +/- 504 g; p < 0.001) and gestational age (ga) (38.4 +/- 1.2 vs. 39.4 +/- 1.3 weeks; p < 0.001) and were more often delivered by caesarean section (cs) (71% vs. 26%; p < 0.001). the beta1ser49gly polymorphism differed significantly between cases and controls. multivariate analysis provided beta1gly49 homozygotes with higher risk for ttn (or 18.5; 95%ci 1.5-229; p = 0.023) than beta1ser49 allele carrier. further analysis showed significant association of t-47c, a46g, c79g and c491t (tacc) haplotype in adrb2 gene with ttn (p = 0.048). we conclude that beta1gly49 homozygosity and tacc haplotype of adrb2 gene, both loss-of-function genetic variations, may predispose to ttn.
Is duration of psychological treatment for depression related to return into treatment? [SEP] incidence of major depressive disorder relapse and effectiveness of pharmacologic and psychological interventions in primary care: a systematic review and meta-analysis: incidence de la rechute du trouble dépressif majeur et efficacité des interventions pharmacologiques et psychologiques en soins primaires : revue systématique et méta-analyse. objectivethis research aims to investigate the relapse rates of major depressive disorder (mdd) within primary care and evaluate the efficacy of relapse prevention therapies. some psychological interventions might also reduce relapse likelihood. more studies are needed on individual and combined treatments over longer periods to understand their long-term impacts on mdd relapse in primary care.plain language summary titlehow often depression returns and how well treatments work in primary care: a review of studies. this study looked at how often people depression experience return of symptoms, when they are treated in primary care settings, such as family doctor clinics, and how well different treatments work to prevent this return of symptoms. the study found that both medication and non-medication treatments were beneficial in reducing the chances of return of depression symptoms. in conclusion, this study suggests that various treatment options can effectively reduce return of depression symptoms in primary care. this includes medications, psychological therapies, or a combination of both. however, more research is needed to better understand how these treatments work over longer periods and their long-term effects people with depression. factors associated with return-to-work outcomes in inpatient rehabilitation - a systematic scoping review.
Are women with major depression in pregnancy identifiable in population health data? [SEP] prevalence and correlates of depression among non-parturient, pregnant, and postpartum women in ibadan, nigeria. depression among women of reproductive age (wra) is a major public health challenge because of its impact on mothers, children, and family members. the study determined the prevalence of depression and its associated factors among women of reproductive age at the three levels of healthcare in ibadan, nigeria. this cross-sectional facility-based study was conducted to compare the prevalence and correlates of depression among 991 pregnant, 662 postpartum, and 674 non-pregnant women using the hospital anxiety and depression scale (hads). prevalence of depression was highest among pregnant women (38.5%), followed by non-pregnant (32.9%) and postpartum women (29.6%) (x2=14.93; p-value=0.001). there is a need for screening for depression during routine health care to identify the women most at risk and for prompt intervention. approximately 13% of women in the united states (u.s.) experience postpartum depression (ppd), a mood disorder that negatively affects maternal and infant wellbeing. identification and validation of postpartum depression subtypes: a population-based cohort study. reduced well-being and depressive episodes frequently complicate pregnancy and can result in serious adverse outcomes for both mother and infant if left untreated. in sub-saharan africa, pregnant and postpartum women with mental health problems are often missed in healthcare systems.
Remote ischemic postconditioning: does it protect against ischemic damage in percutaneous coronary revascularization? [SEP] remote ischaemic postconditioning: does it protect against ischaemic damage in percutaneous coronary revascularisation? determine whether remote ischaemic postconditioning (rip) protects against percutaneous coronary intervention-related myocardial infarction (pci-mi). patients were randomised to rip (induction of three 5-min cycles of ischaemia in the arm after the pci) versus placebo. the secondary outcome measure was hospital admission, pci for stable angina or acute coronary syndrome and mortality after 1 year of follow-up. remote ischemic postconditioning: does it protect against ischemic damage in percutaneous coronary revascularization? myocardial damage that is associated with percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) partially affects the results of the procedure, and is related to medium-term cardiovascular death. remote postischemic conditioning might reduce the myocardial lesions that are associated with pci, but perhaps less so in diabetics. the aim of this study was to evaluate the protective effect of remote postischemic conditioning in patients undergoing elective pci for stable angina or non-st elevation acute coronary syndrome with troponin <1 ng/ml at the time of randomization. this randomized single-blinded single-center clinical trial involved 320 patients undergoing elective pci who were randomized to either receive three 5-min cycles of ischemia by inflation of a cuff on the non-dominant arm to 200 mm hg (remote postischemic conditioning) or to placebo (uninflated cuff). this clinical trial evaluated the possible reduction in intervention-related myocardial damage that was attributable to remote postischemic conditioning.
Does combining antiretroviral agents in a single dosage form enhance quality of life of HIV/AIDS patients? [SEP] 
The inverse equity hypothesis: does it apply to coverage of cancer screening in middle-income countries? [SEP] the inverse equity hypothesis: does it apply to coverage of cancer screening in middle-income countries? it is uncertain whether the inverse equity hypothesis-the idea that new health interventions are initially primarily accessed by the rich, but that inequalities narrow with diffusion to the poor-holds true for cancer screening in low and middle income countries (lmics).this study examines the relationship between overall coverage and economic inequalities in coverage of cancer screening in four middle-income countries. secondary analyses of cross-sectional data from the who study on global ageing and adult health in china, mexico, russia and south africa (2007-2010). three regression-based methods were used to measure economic inequalities: (1) adjusted or; (2) relative index of inequality (rii); and (3) slope index of inequality. coverage for breast cancer screening was 10.5% in south africa, 19.3% in china, 33.8% in russia and 43% in mexico, and coverage for cervical cancer screening was 24% in south africa, 27.2% in china, 63.7% in mexico and 81.5% in russia. economic inequalities in screening participation were substantially lower or non-existent in countries with higher aggregate coverage, for both breast cancer screening (rii: 14.57 in south africa, 4.90 in china, 2.01 in mexico, 1.04 in russia) and cervical cancer screening (rii: 3.60 in china, 2.47 in south africa, 1.39 in mexico, 1.12 in russia). economic inequalities in breast and cervical cancer screening are low in lmics with high screening coverage. these findings are consistent with the inverse equity hypothesis and indicate that high levels of equity in cancer screening are feasible even in countries with high income inequality.
Identification of racial disparities in breast cancer mortality: does scale matter? [SEP] identification of racial disparities in breast cancer mortality: does scale matter? this paper investigates the impact of geographic scale (census tract, zip code, and county) on the detection of disparities in breast cancer mortality among three ethnic groups in texas (period 1995-2005). racial disparities were quantified using both relative (rr) and absolute (rd) statistics that account for the population size and correct for unreliable rates typically observed for minority groups and smaller geographic units. african-american and hispanic women generally experience higher mortality than white non-hispanics, and these differences are especially significant in the southeast metropolitan areas and southwest border of texas. the proportion and location of significant racial disparities however changed depending on the type of statistic (rr versus rd) and the geographic level. the largest proportion of significant results was observed for the rd statistic and census tract data. geographic regions with significant racial disparities for african-americans and hispanics frequently had a poverty rate above 10.00%. this study investigates both relative and absolute racial disparities in breast cancer mortality between white non-hispanic and african-american/hispanic women at the census tract, zip code and county levels. analysis at the census tract level generally led to a larger proportion of geographical units experiencing significantly higher mortality rates for minority groups, although results varied depending on the use of the relative versus absolute statistics. additional research is needed before general conclusions can be formulated regarding the choice of optimal geographic regions for the detection of racial disparities.
Does the leukocyte count correlate with the severity of injury? [SEP] defining the early systemic neutrophil signature after severe trauma: decreased cd10/cd16 levels on admission precedes metabolic dysregulation. it was hypothesized that a specific systemic neutrophil receptor expression pattern in peripheral blood is associated with early metabolic deterioration, as indicated by high lactate levels after eight hours in severely injured trauma patients. circulatory leukocyte counts were significantly higher and cell surface expression levels of cd10 und cd16 were significant lower in trauma patients compared to healthy controls. spearman's rank correlation coefficients for cd10 (ρ = -0.649) and cd16 (ρ = -0.493) showed significant negative correlations with elevated lactate levels after 8 h. this study shows that admission cd10 and cd16 expression levels on neutrophils correlate with elevated lactate levels 8 h post-injury in severe polytrauma. prognostic value of neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (nlr) in trauma patients. although the nlr is a simple indicator of systemic inflammation, this study found that it does not independently predict mortality in trauma patients when other established prognostic markers are included. a newly identified neutrophil category had higher leukocyte counts and crp, with trends toward increased infections and mortality. absolute lymphocyte count trajectory predicts clinical outcome in severely injured patients. absolute lymphocyte count (alc) represents a promising biomarker and may support clinical decision-making in the intensive care unit (icu). this study examined the temporal patterns of alc in severely injured patients and their correlation with clinical outcomes.
Can transcranial direct current stimulation be useful in differentiating unresponsive wakefulness syndrome from minimally conscious state patients? [SEP] transcranial alternating current stimulation in patients with chronic disorder of consciousness: a possible way to cut the diagnostic gordian knot? unresponsive wakefulness syndrome (uws) is a chronic disorder of consciousness (doc) characterized by a lack of awareness and purposeful motor behaviors, owing to an extensive brain connectivity impairment. to this end, we enrolled 15 healthy individuals and 26 doc patients (minimally conscious state-mcs- and uws), who underwent a γ-band transcranial alternating current stimulation (tacs) over the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. cortical connectivity modulation induced by cerebellar oscillatory transcranial direct current stimulation in patients with chronic disorders of consciousness: a marker of covert cognition? although some patients suffering from unresponsive wakefulness syndrome (uws) may retain some capacity for covert cognition, it is difficult to directly demonstrate this property by means of tasks needing patient active cooperation and preserved top-down attention processes. we attempted to highlight such networks in a sample of minimally conscious state (mcs) and uws patients by means of a cerebellar 5 hz oscillatory transcranial direct current stimulation (otdcs), in order to modulate the fpn functional connectivity. can transcranial direct current stimulation be useful in differentiating unresponsive wakefulness syndrome from minimally conscious state patients? disorders of consciousness (doc) diagnosis relies on the presence or absence of purposeful motor responsiveness, which characterizes the minimally conscious state (mcs) and the unresponsive wakefulness syndrome (uws), respectively. the aim of our study was to identify electrophysiological parameters, by means of a transcranial magnetic stimulation approach, which might potentially express the presence of residual networks sustaining fragmentary behavioral patterns, even when no conscious behavior can be observed. then, we applied an anodal transcranial direct current stimulation (a-tdcs) protocol over the orbitofrontal cortex.
Aromatase inhibitor-related musculoskeletal symptoms: is preventing osteoporosis the key to eliminating these symptoms? [SEP] aromatase inhibitor-related musculoskeletal symptoms: is preventing osteoporosis the key to eliminating these symptoms? however, patients receiving ais report a higher incidence of musculoskeletal symptoms and bone fractures; the mechanism and risk factors for this correlation are not well studied. the aim of this study was to correlate these musculoskeletal symptoms and bone fractures in patients receiving ais with bone mineral density (bmd), previous tamoxifen use, and administration of calcium/bisphosphonate (ca/bis). arthralgia, generalized bone pain and/or myalgia, bone fracture after beginning ais, any tamoxifen treatment, and ca/bis therapy were recorded. similarly, the group receiving tamoxifen before ais had fewer patients with arthralgia or generalized bone pain/myalgia or bone fracture (p < .001). finally, the group receiving steroidal ais compared with nonsteroidal ais had more patients with arthralgia or generalized bone pain and/or myalgia, and bone fractures (p < .001). patients on ais who develop osteoporosis are at increased risk of musculoskeletal symptoms and bone fracture. comedication with ca/bis reduces the likelihood for osteoporosis and musculoskeletal symptoms. patients who received tamoxifen before ais were less likely to develop ai-related musculoskeletal symptoms. we recommend that patients on ais should be offered ca/bis to reduce the incidence of musculoskeletal symptoms and fracture, especially if patients are receiving steroidal ai and/or did not receive tamoxifen before ais.
Locoregional opening of the rodent blood-brain barrier for paclitaxel using Nd:YAG laser-induced thermo therapy: a new concept of adjuvant glioma therapy? [SEP] locoregional opening of the rodent blood-brain barrier for paclitaxel using nd:yag laser-induced thermo therapy: a new concept of adjuvant glioma therapy? nd:yag laser-induced thermo therapy (litt) of rat brains is associated with blood-brain barrier (bbb) permeability changes. we address the question of whether litt-induced locoregional disruption of the bbb could possibly allow a locoregional passage of chemotherapeutic agents into brain tissue to treat malignant glioma. cd fischer rats were subject to litt of the left forebrain. disruption of the bbb was analyzed using evans blue and immunohistochemistry (ih). animals were perfused with paclitaxel, and high-pressure liquid chromatography (hplc) was employed to analyze the content of paclitaxel in brain and plasma samples. litt induces an opening of the bbb as demonstrated by locoregional extravasation of evans blue, c3c, fibrinogen, and igm. hplc proved the passage of paclitaxel across the disrupted bbb. litt induces a locoregional passage of chemotherapeutic agents into the brain tissue. this is of potential interest for the treatment of brain tumors.
Preoperative tracheobronchoscopy in newborns with esophageal atresia: does it matter? [SEP] preoperative tracheobronchoscopy in newborns with esophageal atresia: does it matter? despite surgical refinements, perioperative use of tracheobronchoscopy (tbs) as part of surgical approach to esophageal atresia (ea) is still controversial. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the influence of preoperative tbs in newborns with ea in preventing complications and improving diagnosis and surgical treatment. in the period ranging from 1997 to 2003, 62 patients with ea underwent preoperative tbs. the procedure was carried out with flexible bronchoscope maintaining spontaneous breathing. when a wide carinal fistula was found, this was mechanically occluded by fogarty catheter and cannulated with rigid bronchoscopy. type of ea, surgical procedure variations caused by tbs, and associated anomalies not easily detectable were recorded. in 4 patients, previously undetected malformations of the respiratory tree (2 aberrant right upper bronchus and 2 hypoplastic bronchi) were found at tbs. overall, tbs was clinically useful in 28 (45.2%) of 62 patients, including 15 (24.2%) of 62 infants in whom it was crucial in modifying the surgical approach. tracheobronchoscopy is a useful and safe procedure and should be recommended in tertiary centers for babies with ea before surgical repair.
Is horizontal semicircular canal ocular reflex influenced by otolith organs input? [SEP] semicircular canal influences on the developmental tuning of the translational vestibulo-ocular reflex. semicircular canal-dependent developmental tuning of translational vestibulo-ocular reflexes in xenopus laevis. these reflexes derive from semicircular canal and otolith organs and depend on the transformation of the respective sensory signals into extraocular motor commands. a likely mechanism by which semicircular canals might influence the tuning of the otolith responses includes stabilization of coactivated and centrally converging sensory signals from semicircular canal and spatially aligned epithelial utricular regions during natural head/body motion. is horizontal semicircular canal ocular reflex influenced by otolith organs input? otolith organs input influences the axis of horizontal semicircular canal ocular reflex; therefore, the plane of compensatory eye movements induced by the horizontal canal stimulation is not always parallel to the canal. to clarify whether horizontal canal ocular reflex is influenced by otolith organs input. these results suggest that vertical and torsional components occur from the horizontal semicircular canal, and that horizontal canal ocular reflex is influenced by input from the otolithic organs. a model was proposed in which linear acceleration as sensed by the otoliths is scaled by target distance and summed with angular acceleration as sensed by the semicircular canals to control eye movements. the results of the model suggest that a linear interaction exists between the canal and otolithic inputs to the vor.
Serovar specific immunity to Neisseria gonorrhoeae: does it exist? [SEP] prevention of neisseria gonorrhoeae with meningococcal b vaccine: a matched cohort study in southern california. neisseria gonorrhoeae is acquiring increasing resistance to available oral antibiotics, and current screening and treatment approaches have not decreased gonorrhea incidence. although a gonorrhea-specific vaccine does not exist, n. gonorrhoeae shares much of its genome with neisseria meningitidis, notably critical antigenic determinants including outer membrane vesicles (omv). prior observational studies have suggested that omv-based meningococcal serogroup b vaccines confer protection against gonorrhea. exploitation of  have potential clues to an effective gonorrhea vaccine been lurking in international disease surveillance data for decades? while no clinically effective vaccines against gonorrhea have been developed we present direct and indirect evidence that a vaccine is not only possible, but may already exist. serovar specific immunity to neisseria gonorrhoeae: does it exist? to determine whether the host immune response to gonorrhoea provides limited serovar specific protection from reinfection. patients with recurrent gonococcal infection were analysed with respect to the initial and subsequent serovars isolated. it remains possible that populations with a higher prevalence of gonorrhoea and more frequent infections may have a quantitatively greater immune response.
May student examiners be reasonable substitute examiners for faculty in an undergraduate OSCE on medical emergencies? [SEP] 
Are endothelial cell patterns of astrocytomas indicative of grade? [SEP] we investigated the endothelial phenotype in 22 adult-type diffuse gliomas (glioblastoma, astrocytoma grade 4 and 3, oligodendroglioma grade 3 and 2) by immunohistochemical analysis of two ec markers: p-glycoprotein (p-gp), a transporter associated with mature bbb phenotype, and cd146, an adhesion molecule linked to immature, mesenchymal-like ecs. we observed that polysialic acid neural cell adhesion molecule-positive npcs accumulate at the border of high-grade astrocytomas and display a marker profile consistent with immature migratory npcs. angiogenic patterns and their quantitation in high grade astrocytic tumors. the objectives of this study on high grade astrocytic tumors were (i) to establish differences, if any, between grades iii & iv tumors among angiogenic parameters, both qualitative and quantitative, and (ii) to correlate angiogenic parameters with proliferation indices, namely t2a and mib1 labeling indices. twenty nine consecutive cases of who grades iii (11) and iv (18) astrocytic tumors diagnosed in the year-2004 were studied, using h&e and cd34, mib1 and t2a immunostaining by streptavidin biotin technique. main angiogenic patterns of capillary (18) and glomeruloid (9) types were best developed in glioblastomas. increased angiogenesis in grade iv, as compared to grade iii, astrocytic tumors is characterized by an increased number/density of vessels: an increase in vessels characterized by disproportionate lengthening and likely associated with the infiltrative properties of the tumors; and an increase in pliable, irregularly shaped or structured vessels. further studies are needed to determine the usefulness of the angiogenic parameters in the improved diagnosis (grading) and prognosis of astrocytic tumors. expression levels in high-grade tumors were higher than in low-grade tumors. insulin-like growth factor-1 content and pattern of expression correlates with histopathologic grade in diffusely infiltrating astrocytomas.
Do healthier lifestyles lead to less utilization of healthcare resources? [SEP] do healthier lifestyles lead to less utilization of healthcare resources? governments are urged to determine methods to control the use of medical resources and curb the rise of healthcare costs. the question is, do health behaviors have an impact on the use of medical resources? this study aims to identify and understand the difference in the number of outpatient visits and health examinations based on various health behaviors and to determine whether patients seek medical care for illness from the same physicians. the regression model for the frequency of doctor visits, health examinations, and whether the same physician is sought for medical care has demonstrated significant correlations with gender, age and education-level variables. four health behaviors (i.e., exercise habits, dietary habits, regular blood pressure measurement, drinking habits) exhibited a significant correlation with healthcare utilization (p <0.05). healthy lifestyles lead to an increase in the utilization of preventive health services. however, there is not much significantly reducing the number of outpatient visits in people with health behaviors. specifically, people with regular exercise habits and who take their blood pressure measurement regularly have an increased number of outpatient visits. it is suggested that more available and accessible health consultation services be provided to inculcate in the general public the importance of maintaining a healthy lifestyle.
Do all ethnic groups in New Zealand exhibit socio-economic mortality gradients? [SEP] 
Can normal knee kinematics be restored with unicompartmental knee replacement? [SEP] medial stabilized articular surface and/or a surgical technique may help restore native knee kinematics across wb conditions. efficacy of functional alignment in total knee arthroplasty in restoring in vivo cruciate ligament forces and knee kinematics compared with mechanical alignment. early and predictable restoration of motion using a "kinematic retaining" total knee replacement: a prospective dynamic fluoroscopic study. new total knee replacement designs aim to improve patient outcomes through restoration of normal knee joint movements. recent in vivo evidence indicates that the combination of factors necessary to closely restore native tibial rotation as the knee flexes and extends is kinematic alignment (ka), which resurfaces the patient's pre-arthritic knee without releasing ligaments, an insert with medial 1:1 ball-in-socket conformity and a lateral flat surface, and posterior cruciate ligament (pcl) retention. importance of joint line restoration in total knee arthroplasty. knee joint biomechanics need to be restored as near normal as possible. in vivo kinematics and cruciate ligament tension are not restored to normal after bicruciate-preserving arthroplasty. the purpose of this study was to compare the in vivo kinematics and cruciate ligament force in knees before and after uka or bcr-tka to those in normal knees during high-flexion activity. bicruciate-stabilized (bcs) total knee arthroplasty (tka) aims to restore normal kinematics by replicating the function of both cruciate ligaments.
Are serum leptin levels a prognostic factor in advanced lung cancer? [SEP] 
Is fetal gender associated with emergency department visits for asthma during pregnancy? [SEP] is fetal gender associated with emergency department visits for asthma during pregnancy? to investigate if fetal gender (1) affects the risk of having an emergency department (ed) visit for asthma; and (2) is associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes among women who had at least one visit to the ed for asthma during pregnancy. we linked two provincial administrative databases containing records on in-patient deliveries and ed visits. the study sample included women who delivered a live singleton baby between april 2003 and march 2004. pregnant women who made at least one ed visit for asthma were counted as cases and the rest of the women as control subjects. we performed a multivariable analysis using logistic regression to model the risk of having an ed visit for asthma, with fetal gender being one of the predictors. among 109,173 live singleton deliveries, 530 women had visited ed due to asthma during pregnancy. while having an ed visit for asthma was positively associated with teenage pregnancy, low income, and presence of pregnancy-induced hypertension, it was not associated with fetal gender (or 1.01, 95% ci 0.85-1.19). fetal gender was not a significant predictor of adverse pregnancy outcomes among women who had an asthma ed visit during pregnancy. fetal gender does not affect the risk of having an ed visit for asthma during pregnancy, and it is not associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes among women who had an asthma-related ed during pregnancy.
Stretch-sensitive KCNQ1 mutation A link between genetic and environmental factors in the pathogenesis of atrial fibrillation? [SEP] stretch-sensitive kcnq1 mutation a link between genetic and environmental factors in the pathogenesis of atrial fibrillation? this study sought to evaluate mutations in genes encoding the slow component of the cardiac delayed rectifier k+ current (i(ks)) channel in familial atrial fibrillation (af). although af can have a genetic etiology, links between inherited gene defects and acquired factors such as atrial stretch have not been explored. mutation screening of the kcnq1, kcne1, kcne2, and kcne3 genes was performed in 50 families with af. the effects of mutant protein on cardiac i(ks) activation were evaluated using electrophysiological studies and human atrial action potential modeling. one missense kcnq1 mutation, r14c, was identified in 1 family with a high prevalence of hypertension. atrial fibrillation was present only in older individuals who had developed atrial dilation and who were genotype positive. after exposure to hypotonic solution to elicit cell swelling/stretch, mutant channels showed a marked increase in current, a leftward shift in the voltage dependence of activation, altered channel kinetics, and shortening of the modeled atrial action potential duration. these data suggest that the r14c kcnq1 mutation alone is insufficient to cause af. rather, we suggest a model in which a "second hit", such as an environmental factor like hypertension, which promotes atrial stretch and thereby unmasks an inherited defect in ion channel kinetics (the "first hit"), is required for af to be manifested.
Are adult body circumferences associated with height? [SEP] association between six anthropometric indices and incident arthritis: prospective findings from the english longitudinal study of ageing. novel anthropometric indices, including the body roundness index (bri), a body shape index (absi), weight-adjusted waist index (wwi), waist-to-height ratio (whtr), waist circumference (wc), and bmi, may offer additional insights. weighted multivariable logistic regression and restricted cubic splines were used to evaluate the associations of body mass index (bmi), waist circumference (wc), 10 × waist-to-height ratio (10 × whtr), and body roundness index (bri) with prevalent hf. in adults with masld, general obesity (bmi) was independently associated with hf, whereas associations for central adiposity indices were no longer statistically significant after adjustment for metabolic comorbidities. body roundness index mediates the association between high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and diabetic retinopathy: a population-based cross-sectional study. bri was calculated based on height and waist circumference. anthropometric measures (body weight, bmi, waist circumference, and waist-to-height ratio) increased across steatosis grades. we present a novel, anthropometry-based model that accurately identifies masld in children with obesity using readily available clinical parameters. then, weight, height and waist circumference, body mass index (bmi) also, systolic and diastolic blood pressures (mmhg) of all subjects were measured and calculated. anthropometric measurements (weight, height, waist/hip circumference, body composition) were taken using calibrated tools.
Would corrected QT dispersion predict left ventricular hypertrophy in hypertensive patients? [SEP] although ventricular repolarization indexes were similar in patients with and without left ventricular hypertrophy, only corrected qt dispersion was significantly higher in patients with hypertension (p = .006). would corrected qt dispersion predict left ventricular hypertrophy in hypertensive patients? we explored whether qt corrected dispersion (qtcd) can identify left ventricular hypertrophy (lvh) in hypertensives. combined qt interval and voltage criteria improve left ventricular hypertrophy detection in resistant hypertension. qt interval parameters have been associated with left ventricular hypertrophy (lvh) in hypertensive patients. does a prolonged qt peak identify left ventricular hypertrophy in hypertension? hypertensive subjects with left ventricular hypertrophy can have increased qt (end) dispersion, which is associated with cardiac death. therefore, we tested the hypothesis that long qt peak was associated with left ventricular hypertrophy and assessed its cost-effectiveness at diagnosing left ventricular hypertrophy. increased qt dispersion has been associated with ventricular arrhythmia and sudden death in a variety of cardiac disorders. in spite of increased qtc dispersion in hypertensive patients, this finding was not associated with increased risk of sudden death and only lvh and high grade ventricular arrhythmias identified hypertensive patients at risk of sudden cardiac death over a 10-year follow-up period.
Traumatic aortic injury: does the anatomy of the aortic arch influence aortic trauma severity? [SEP] predictive factors for size change of aorta in patients with acute blunt traumatic aortic injury. traumatic aortic injury: does the anatomy of the aortic arch influence aortic trauma severity? we investigate whether the anatomy of the aortic arch influences the severity of aortic injury. aortic injury was assessed in accordance with the recommendations of the society of vascular surgery. the mean aortic arch index and mean aortic arch angle were 6.8 cm and 58.3°, respectively, in the type i injury group; 4.4 cm and 45.9° in the type iii group; 3.3 cm and 37° in the type iv group. a multivariate analysis confirmed that the aortic arch angle was significantly associated with the occurrence of type iii damage (or 1.5; 95% ci 1.03-2.2). the severity of tai is influenced by the sharpness of the aortic arch. there is an inverse relationship between the severity of aortic injury and the aortic arch index. bivariate analysis identified variables potentially influencing the presentation of aortic injury. determinants of outcome in lesions of the thoracic aorta in patients with multiorgan system trauma.
Inpatient versus outpatient management of neutropenic fever in gynecologic oncology patients: is risk stratification useful? [SEP] inpatient versus outpatient management of neutropenic fever in gynecologic oncology patients: is risk stratification useful? this study aimed to evaluate the utility of risk stratification of gynecologic oncology patients with neutropenic fever (nf). a retrospective chart review of gynecologic cancer patients admitted with nf from 2007 to 2011 was performed, wherein demographic, oncologic, and nf characteristics (hospitalization length, complications, and death) were collected. the multinational association for supportive care in cancer (mascc) risk index score was calculated; low risk was considered ≥ 21. most (92%) were caucasian and had advanced stage disease (71%). all patients were receiving chemotherapy on admission (72% for primary, 28% for recurrent disease). seventy-six percent of patients were considered low risk. high-risk patients were more likely to have a severe complication (10% versus 50%, p=0.0003), multiple severe complications (3% versus 20%, p=0.0278), icu admission (2% versus 40%, p<0.0001), overall mortality (2% versus 15%, p=0.0417), and death due to neutropenic fever (0% versus 15%, p=0.0124). the median mascc score for all patients was 22 (range, 11-26), but the median mascc score for those with death or a severe complication was 17 (range, 11-24). based on this pilot data, mascc score appears promising in determining suitability for outpatient management of nf in gynecologic oncology patients.
Regional anesthesia as compared with general anesthesia for surgery in geriatric patients with hip fracture: does it decrease morbidity, mortality, and health care costs? [SEP] regional anesthesia as compared with general anesthesia for surgery in geriatric patients with hip fracture: does it decrease morbidity, mortality, and health care costs? hip fracture in geriatric patients has a substantial economic impact and represents a major cause of morbidity and mortality in this population. at our institution, a regional anesthesia program was instituted for patients undergoing surgery for hip fracture. this retrospective cohort review examines the effects of regional anesthesia (from mainly after july 2007) vs general anesthesia (mainly prior to july 2007) on morbidity, mortality and hospitalization costs. this retrospective cohort study involved data collection from electronic and paper charts of 308 patients who underwent surgery for hip fracture from september 2006 to december 2008. seventy-three patients received regional anesthesia and 235 patients received general anesthesia. during july 2007, approximately halfway through the study period, a regional anesthesia and analgesia program was introduced. the average cost of hospitalization in patients who received surgery for hip fracture was no different between patients who receive regional or general anesthesia ($16,789 + 631 vs $16,815 + 643, respectively, p = 0.9557). in-hospital mortality and rates of readmission are not statistically different between the two anesthesia groups. there is no difference in postoperative morbidity, rates of rehospitalization, in-patient mortality or hospitalization costs in geriatric patients undergoing regional or general anesthesia for repair of hip fracture.
Does blood pressure change in treated hypertensive patients depending on whether it is measured by a physician or a nurse? [SEP] nurse contributions to daily rounds. evidence shows nurse-led initiatives improve patient safety, documentation, and care efficiency. work time pressure was positively associated with burnout among icu nurses. nurses' knowledge of hypertension care and associated factors in the northern region of ghana. nurses play a pivotal role in hypertension care, encompassing screening, detection, management, patient education and self-management counselling. this study assessed nurses' knowledge of hypertension care and associated factors in the northern region of ghana. using a census approach, 410 eligible nurses working in hypertension care across the study hospitals were invited to participate. while nurses demonstrated good knowledge of accurate blood pressure measurement (82.4%), their knowledge of hypertension diagnosis (35.1%) and management (48.8%) was poor. the following were significantly associated with overall knowledge of hypertension care: hospital of practice ( this study revealed significant gaps in nurses' knowledge of hypertension care and highlighted the need for continuous professional development to bridge knowledge gaps and sustain clinical competence. the study provided evidence on nurses' knowledge of hypertension care in ghana, which can inform the development of tailored interventions to improve management and patient outcomes.
Treadmill testing of children who have spina bifida and are ambulatory: does peak oxygen uptake reflect maximum oxygen uptake? [SEP] treadmill testing of children who have spina bifida and are ambulatory: does peak oxygen uptake reflect maximum oxygen uptake? )vo(2)peak) in children with spina bifida. )vo(2)peak values obtained with treadmill testing. the aim of this study was to determine whether the vo(2)peak measured during an incremental treadmill test is a true reflection of the maximum oxygen uptake ((. )vo(2)max) in children who have spina bifida and are ambulatory. )vo(2)peak was measured during a graded treadmill exercise test. )vo(2)peak measurements was evaluated by use of previously described guidelines for maximum exercise testing in children who are healthy, as well as differences between vo(2)peak and (. these results apply to children who have spina bifida and are at least community ambulatory. )vo(2)peak measured during an incremental treadmill test seems to reflect the true (. )vo(2)max in children who have spina bifida and are ambulatory, validating the use of a treadmill test for these children.
Is the probability of prenatal diagnosis or termination of pregnancy different for fetuses with congenital anomalies conceived following assisted reproductive techniques? [SEP] congenital heart defects in ivf/icsi pregnancy: systematic review and meta-analysis. the aim of the study was to assess whether congenital heart defects (chd) occur more often in pregnancies conceived after ivf/icsi as compared with those conceived spontaneously. a total of 25 856 children conceived from ivf/icsi techniques and 287 995 children conceived spontaneously, involving both singleton and multiple gestations, were included in the analysis. is the probability of prenatal diagnosis or termination of pregnancy different for fetuses with congenital anomalies conceived following assisted reproductive techniques? a population-based evaluation of fetuses with congenital heart defects. to compare the probability of prenatal diagnosis (pnd) and termination of pregnancy for fetal anomaly (topfa) between fetuses conceived by assisted reproductive techniques (art) and spontaneously-conceived fetuses with congenital heart defects (chd). fetuses with chd in the paris registry of congenital malformations and cohort of children with chd (epicard). comparison of art-conceived and spontaneously conceived fetuses taking into account potential confounders (maternal characteristics, multiplicity and year of birth or topfa). probability and gestational age at pnd and topfa for art-conceived versus spontaneously conceived fetuses. gestational age at topfa was comparable between art-conceived and spontaneously conceived fetuses.
Is there a relationship between complex fractionated atrial electrograms recorded during atrial fibrillation and sinus rhythm fractionation? [SEP] 
Does rural or urban residence make a difference to neonatal outcome in premature birth? [SEP] urbanization, wildfire exposure, and youth mental health: a narrative review. urbanization intensifies these risks by expanding the wildland-urban interface and stratifying access to care. rural and peri-urban youth face the most significant disruption, from displacement to delayed service access, yet are the least likely to receive sustained, culturally responsive interventions. the scarcity of research explicitly addressing urbanization's role in youth wildfire mental health represents a critical gap. future research should incorporate urban-rural typologies, geospatial analysis, cultural dimensions, and developmental trajectories to inform equitable, place-based interventions for wildfire-exposed youth. across the study period, asmr and pyllr were consistently higher in males than females and higher in rural than urban residents. rural-urban disparities in access to interventional psychiatry treatments among va patients. we compared treatment use in rural and micropolitan locations to use in urban locations. micropolitan and rural patients had lower odds of receiving rtms, ect, sgb, dbs, and ketamine than urban patients. there appear to be rural-urban disparities in the emerging field of interventional psychiatry, and the disparities are most pronounced for treatments that require repeated in-person visits such as rtms and ketamine.
Is the use of cyanoacrylate in intestinal anastomosis a good and reliable alternative? [SEP] 
Is trabecular bone related to primary stability of miniscrews? [SEP] risk factors for the stability of secondary orthodontic miniscrews following initial insertion failure. to examine the variables that influence the stability of secondary orthodontic anchoring miniscrews after the occurrence of initial placement failure. the success rate of reinsertion was 66.00% (66/100), and the cancellous bone density and the patient's age had a strong correlation with the stability of reinserted miniscrews. the study indicates that younger patients with miniscrews reinserted in areas with high cancellous bone density are more likely to experience instability. this finding warrants careful consideration by orthodontists when performing miniscrew reinsertion procedures. is trabecular bone related to primary stability of miniscrews? to compare the primary stability of miniscrews inserted into bone blocks of different bone mineral densities (bmds) with and without cortical bone, and investigate whether some trabecular properties could influence primary stability. miniscrews 1.4 mm in diameter and 6 mm long were inserted into the bone blocks, and primary stability was evaluated by insertion torque (it), mini-implant mobility (ptv), and pull-out strength (ps). intergroup comparison showed lower levels of primary stability when the bmd of trabecular bone was lower and in the absence of cortical bone (p≤.05). cancellous bone plays an important role in primary stability of mini-implants in the presence or absence of cortical bone.
Is there any evidence of a "July effect" in patients undergoing major cancer surgery? [SEP] is there any evidence of a "july effect" in patients undergoing major cancer surgery? the "july effect" refers to the phenomenon of adverse impacts on patient care arising from the changeover in medical staff that takes place during this month at academic medical centres in north america. there has been some evidence supporting the presence of the july effect, including data from surgical specialties. we therefore sought to perform a population-level assessment for the presence of a july effect in this field. on univariate analysis, the overall postoperative complication rate, as well as genitourinary and hematologic complications specifically, was higher in july than the rest of the year. on the whole, the data confirm an absence of a july effect in patients undergoing major cancer surgery. is there a "july effect" for head and neck cancer surgery? a "july effect" of increased complications when new trainees begin residency has been reported widely by the media. we sought to determine the effect of admission month on in-hospital mortality, complications, length of hospitalization, and costs for patients undergoing head and neck cancer (hnca) surgery. these data do not support evidence of a "july effect" or an increase in morbidity or mortality at teaching hospitals providing hnca surgical care.
Is it necessary to insert a nasobiliary drainage tube routinely after endoscopic clearance of the common bile duct in patients with choledocholithiasis-induced cholangitis? [SEP] is it necessary to insert a nasobiliary drainage tube routinely after endoscopic clearance of the common bile duct in patients with choledocholithiasis-induced cholangitis? little is known about whether a routinely inserted endoscopic nasobiliary drainage (enbd) tube improves the clinical course in patients with choledocholithiasis-induced acute cholangitis after clearance of choledocholithiasis. the aim of this study was to investigate the need for enbd on the clinical outcomes of patients with acute cholangitis undergoing endoscopic clearance of common bile duct (cbd) stones. tertiary referral center. a total of 104 patients with choledocholithiasis-induced acute cholangitis who underwent primary endoscopic treatment were compared according to insertion of an enbd tube (51 in the enbd group and 53 in the no-enbd group). insertion of an enbd tube after clearance of cbd stones. recurrence of cholangitis and length of hospital stay after clearance of cbd stones. there were no significant differences in the recurrence rate of cholangitis at 24 weeks (3.9% for the enbd group vs 3.8% for the no-enbd group at 24 weeks; p = .99) and length of hospital stay (7.9 days [standard error = 1.2] for the enbd group vs 7.9 days [standard error = 0.7] for the no-enbd group; p = .98). however, procedure time was longer (26.2 [se = 1.8] minutes vs 22.7 [se = 1.0] minutes, respectively; p = .01) and the discomfort score was higher (4.9 [se = 0.4] vs 2.8 [se = 0.3], respectively; p = .02) in the enbd group than in the no-enbd group. a routinely inserted enbd tube did not improve the clinical course, despite patients having to endure increased procedure time and discomfort, and the insertion would therefore be unnecessary.
Is the clinically positive axilla in breast cancer really a contraindication to sentinel lymph node biopsy? [SEP] 
Convulsions and retinal haemorrhage: should we look further? [SEP] convulsions and retinal haemorrhage: should we look further? the prevalence of retinal haemorrhages after convulsions is not well established. as these haemorrhages are considered characteristic of child abuse, we investigated their occurrence after convulsive episodes to see whether the finding of haemorrhage should prompt further investigation. prospective study of 153 children (aged 2 months to 2 years), seen in the emergency department after a convulsive episode. after a thorough history and physical examination, a retinal examination was performed by an ophthalmologist. if findings were positive, further investigation was undertaken to rule out systemic disorder or child abuse. one child was found with unilateral retinal haemorrhages following an episode of a simple febrile convulsion. a thorough investigation uncovered no other reason for this finding. retinal haemorrhages following a convulsive episode are rare. such a finding should trigger an extensive search for other reasons, including child abuse.
Are patients willing participants in the new wave of community-based medical education in regional and rural Australia? [SEP] are patients willing participants in the new wave of community-based medical education in regional and rural australia? community-based medical education is growing to meet the increased demand for quality clinical education in expanded settings, and its sustainability relies on patient participation. this study investigated patients' views on being used as an educational resource for teaching medical students. patients attending six rural and 11 regional general practices in new south wales over 18 teaching sessions in november 2008, who consented to student involvement in their consultation. patient perceptions, expectations and acceptance of medical student involvement in consultations, assessed by surveys before and after their consultations. 118 of 122 patients consented to medical student involvement; of these, 117 (99%) completed a survey before the consultation, and 100 (85%) after the consultation. patients were overwhelmingly positive about their doctor and practice being involved in student teaching and felt they themselves played an important role. patients in regional and rural settings were willing partners in developing skills of junior medical students, who had greater involvement in patient consultations than previously reported for urban students. our study extends the findings from urban general practice that patients are underutilised partners in community-based medical training. the support of patients from regional and rural settings could facilitate the expansion of primary care-based medical education in these areas of workforce need.
Can Flexible Instruments Create Adequate Femoral Tunnel Lengths at 90° of Knee Flexion in Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction? [SEP] optimization of anteromedial portal femoral tunnel drilling with flexible and straight reamers in anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: a cadaveric 3-dimensional computed tomography analysis. to use 3-dimensional custom cad technology to evaluate how knee flexion angle affects femoral tunnel length and distance to the posterior wall when using curved and straight guides for drilling through the anteromedial portal (amp). at 90° of flexion, the average tunnel length down the posterior aspect of 8-mm tunnel was 25.0 mm (95% confidence interval [ci] 16.2-33.8) and 12.0 mm (95% ci 7.3-16.7) for curved and straight guides, respectively; 31.0 mm (95% ci 26.8-35.2) and 28.6 mm (95% ci 24.8-32.4) at 110°; 33.8 mm (95% ci 30.1-37.5) and 31.1 mm (95% ci 26.8-35.4) at 125°; and 35.0 mm (95% ci 34.1-35.9) and 35.5 mm (95% ci 34.2-36.8) with maximal flexion. when using the amp, flexible guides and reamers result in a greater distance of the tunnel to the femoral cortex while preserving adequate tunnel length at lower knee flexion angles. to create long femoral tunnels without breaching the posterior cortex, the knee should be flexed to at least 110° for curved reamers and 125° for straight. femoral tunnel drilling through the amp using curved and straight reamers requires different degrees of knee flexion to achieve optimal tunnel dimensions. can flexible instruments create adequate femoral tunnel lengths at 90° of knee flexion in anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction? this study aims to study femoral tunnel lengths drilled with a flexible reamer and the distance to important lateral structures obtained by flexing the knee at various angles and by drilling the guide pins arthroscopically to resemble clinical practice. the purpose of this cadaveric study was twofold: 1. to determine whether femoral tunnel lengths of greater than 20 mm can be created with a flexible reamer system at 90 ° of knee flexion and 2. to determine whether the lateral structures of the knee are safe with this technique. this study that shows that adequate femoral tunnel lengths can be safely created without knee hyperflex - ion using flexible instruments via an anteromedial portal.
Quality of life in lung cancer patients: does socioeconomic status matter? [SEP] causal cascade of symptoms on patient functioning and health-related quality of life in non-small cell lung cancer and metastatic breast cancer. health-related quality of life (hrqol) is a valuable counterpart to other end points in oncology trials. cancer and its treatment can have direct and indirect effects on symptoms such as pain, nausea, and fatigue. quality of life in lung cancer patients: does socioeconomic status matter? as part of a prospective study on quality of life in newly diagnosed lung cancer patients an investigation was carried out to examine whether there were differences among patients' quality of life scores and their socioeconomic status. quality of life was measured at two points in time (baseline and three months after initial treatment) using three standard instruments; the nottingham health profile (nhp), the european organization for research and cancer treatment quality of life questionnaire (eortc qlq-c30) and its lung cancer supplement (qlq-lc13). socioeconomic status for each individual patient was derived using carstairs and morris deprivation category ranging from 1 (least deprived) to 7 (most deprived) on the basis of the postcode sector of their address. 57% of patients were of lower socioeconomic status and they had more health problems, less functioning, and more symptoms as compared to affluent patients. at baseline assessment patients of lower socioeconomic status showed lower health related quality of life. in general, the findings suggest that quality of life is not only the outcome of the disease and its treatment, but is also highly dependent on each patients' socioeconomic characteristics.
Should early extubation be the goal for children after congenital cardiac surgery? [SEP] extensive studies have focused on the role of risk factors in early extubation during major infant surgery such as cardiac surgery, neurosurgery, and liver surgery. impact of extubation time on feeding outcomes after neonatal cardiac surgery: a single-center study. this study aimed to examine the impact of timing of extubation on feeding outcomes in neonates after surgery for congenital heart disease. extubation in the operating room of children with right ventricular pressure overload undergoing biventricular correction is feasible and safe and has a beneficial effect on the postoperative course. should early extubation be the goal for children after congenital cardiac surgery? we sought to determine the feasibility and assess the clinical outcomes associated with an early extubation strategy for all children undergoing congenital heart surgery, including neonates (age, <30 days). implementation of an early extubation strategy was associated with low rates of complications (5.1 per 10 procedures), short lengths of intensive care unit stay (median, 1 day; interquartile range, 1-3), and short hospital stays (median, 4 days; interquartile range, 3-6). most children undergoing congenital heart surgery can be extubated in the operating room. most neonates, including many undergoing complex procedures, can be extubated within the first 24 hours after surgery. early extubation was associated with low morbidity rates and short lengths of intensive care unit and hospital stays.
Does delivery mode affect women's postpartum quality of life in rural China? [SEP] does delivery mode affect women's postpartum quality of life in rural china? to explore the impact of delivery mode on women's postpartum quality of life in rural china and probe factors influencing postnatal quality of life. childbirth significantly affects puerpera's physical, psychological and social domains of quality of life. under the circumstance of increasing high caesarean section rate in rural china, the impact of delivery mode on postnatal quality of life remains unclear. women residing in rural areas and in their 0-12 months after childbirth from 30 rural townships participated in a household survey. the scale for rural postnatal quality of life was adopted to assess postnatal quality of life from six dimensions: physical complaints and pain, sleep and energy, sex satisfaction, interpersonal communication, self-evaluated living stress and perceived life satisfaction. it was found that postnatal home visit related to good postnatal quality of life and lower husband education level, male gender of infant were associated with poor quality of life. delivery mode did not affect postpartum quality of life in rural china. socio-cultural determinants may contribute more in influencing postnatal quality of life. null findings in impact of delivery mode on postpartum quality of life may cause more difficulties in maternal decision-making for vaginal delivery in rural china.
Menopausal hormone therapy and irregular endometrial bleeding: a potential role for uterine natural killer cells? [SEP] menopausal hormone therapy and irregular endometrial bleeding: a potential role for uterine natural killer cells? irregular bleeding affects many users of combined menopausal hormone therapy (ht) and commonly leads to invasive and expensive investigations to exclude underlying malignancy. the main objective of this study was to explore the role of uterine natural killer (unk) cells and their regulatory cytokine il-15 in irregular bleeding in ht users. the study was conducted in a tertiary referral menopause clinic at king edward memorial hospital, western australia. outpatient endometrial biopsies were taken during and outside bleeding episodes. the relationship between endometrial unk cells (cd56+) and bleeding patterns was measured. we also addressed the impact of ht exposure on unk cell populations, the relationship between endometrial il-15 expression and unk cell populations, and killer ig like receptor genotype in subjects with irregular bleeding. endometrial cd56+ unk cells were significantly increased in biopsies obtained during bleeding episodes (p < 0.001), compared with ht users with no bleeding. no clear relationship between killer ig like receptor genotype and bleeding on ht was observed. this is the first report of unk cells and their association with regulating cytokines in postmenopausal endometrium and demonstrates a possible mechanism by which ht may induce irregular bleeding.
Percutaneous ethanol injection for benign cystic thyroid nodules: is aspiration of ethanol-mixed fluid advantageous? [SEP] percutaneous ethanol injection for benign cystic thyroid nodules: is aspiration of ethanol-mixed fluid advantageous? we evaluated the differences between percutaneous ethanol injection with and without aspiration of ethanol-mixed fluid for treatment of benign cystic thyroid nodules. we examined 60 patients with benign cystic thyroid nodules confirmed by fine-needle aspiration biopsy and divided them into 2 groups according to nonaspiration (group a, n = 30) or aspiration (group b, n = 30) of ethanol-mixed fluid after intracystic ethanol injection. we evaluated in both groups the complete disappearance of the cystic portion of the thyroid nodule on follow-up ultrasonography (first follow-up ultrasonography; mean, 4.6 months in group a; mean, 4.4 months in group b) (chi-square test), side effects or complications during and after the procedure (chi-square test), and the total procedure time (student t test). most patients showed complete disappearance of the cystic portion of the thyroid nodule (group a, n = 29; group b, n = 28), and they revealed no recurrence on follow-up ultrasonography. there was no statistical difference in the success rates between group a and group b (p > .05). pain, the most common side effect, and other mild side effects or complications occurred in small numbers of patients in each group, but there was no significant difference in side effects or complications between the 2 groups (p > .05), except for intracystic hemorrhage (p < .05) and the complaint of all group b patients due to a double puncture (p < .001). the total procedure time was nearly double in group b than in group a because of the additional procedures, such as complete evacuation of the ethanol-mixed fluid and the 10-minute compression. percutaneous ethanol injection without aspiration of ethanol-mixed fluid seems to be the preferable method of treatment of benign cystic thyroid nodules from the perspective of both the physician and the patient.
Can the growth rate of a gallbladder polyp predict a neoplastic polyp? [SEP] gallbladder polyps growth rate is an independent risk factor for neoplastic polyps. the size of gallbladder (gb) polyps is a representative risk factor for neoplastic polyps. however, whether growth rate during follow-up is associated with neoplastic polyps remains unclear. in addition to growth rate, several other variables considered suitable for predicting neoplastic polyps were also investigated. multivariate analysis identified several factors predicting neoplastic polyps: polyp size ≥10 mm (odds ratio [or], 3.74, p = 0.041), solitary polyp (or, 3.92, p = 0.004), and polyp growth rate ≥ 3 mm/year (or, 2.75, p = 0.031). gb polyps with a growth rate of over 3 mm per year on ultrasonography during follow-up should be considered a risk factor for neoplastic polyps. can the growth rate of a gallbladder polyp predict a neoplastic polyp? the aim of this study was to evaluate whether the growth rate of a gallbladder (gb) polyp is a predictive indicator for neoplastic polyps. on multivariate analysis, however, the growth rate was not related to the neoplastic nature of a polyp, but older age (>60 y) and large size (>10 mm) were significantly associated with neoplastic polyps. patient's age (>60 y) and large polyp size (>10 mm) were significant predictive factors for neoplastic gb polyps.
Are performance measurement systems useful? [SEP] machine-learning algorithms will be used to develop the prediction models, and model performance will be evaluated using classification metrics and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve analysis. performance metrics included the area under the receiving operating characteristic curve (auroc), sensitivity, and specificity. performance was considered poor in all models, and none reached an area under the receiving operating characteristic curve above 70%. physiotherapist and nurse perspectives on the acceptability and timing of patient-reported outcome measures in clinical practice: balancing standardisation and flexibility. patient-reported outcome measures (proms), when used at the point-of-care, provide a mechanism to systematically integrate patients' voices into shared decision-making. we examined clinicians' perspectives on the acceptability and preferred timing of prom completion in routine clinical care for respiratory, musculoskeletal, cardiac, kidney and diabetic condition management. however, clinicians also recognised that increased flexibility may reduce the comparability of aggregated prom data across cohorts, highlighting an inherent acceptability trade-off between meeting individual clinical needs and supporting system-level performance monitoring and benchmarking. people with long‑term health conditions can fill out health surveys called patient‑reported outcome measures (proms). proms are used more in healthcare now, but we do not know enough about how clinicians feel about using them or when they should be given to patients to improve their care.in this study, we spoke with physiotherapists and nurses who use proms. they told us what they think about proms and when these should be completed by patients.physiotherapists and nurses said proms can help them better understand their patients, find changes in their patients' health, and support conversations about care.
Does para-cervical block offer additional advantages in abortion induction with gemeprost in the 2nd trimester? [SEP] [does para-cervical block offer additional advantages in abortion induction with gemeprost in the 2nd trimester?]. uterus-specific synthetic prostaglandin analogues (gemeprost, sulproston etc.) have been widely employed for termination of pregnancy in the second trimester. since paracervical anaesthesia may be useful during this procedure, we investigated in this prospective randomised study its impact on the clinical course of abortion and pain especially in the late first and second stage of labour. 20 women scheduled for elective abortion (fetal reasons) between the 16th and 23rd week of gestation were to be given 1 mg gemeprost vaginally every 6 hours. they were allocated at random: 10 women received only pethidin intravenously and butylscopolamine rectally, another 10 women were additionally treated by paracervical anaesthesia (2 x 10 ml 0.5% bupivacain solution) at a cervical dilatation of 2-3 cm. in the group without paracervical anaesthesia the median induction to abortion interval was 20 hours (range: 8-44 hours), 13 hours (range: 8-36 hours, ns) resulting for the paracervical anaesthesia group. the intervals from the last application of prostaglandin until abortion and from 3 cm cervical dilatation to abortion were slightly, but not significantly shorter in the paracervical anaesthesia group. paracervical anaesthesia is a method for analgesia during second trimester abortion with a low rate of side effects. it can shorten the duration of last period of second trimester abortion in some cases but has no impact on the perception of pain nor requirement of analgesics and so with only limited benefit in second trimester abortion with vaginal gemeprost.
Does insulin resistance drive the association between hyperglycemia and cardiovascular risk? [SEP] is type 2 diabetes a modifiable risk factor for the evolution and progression of heart failure with a preserved ejection fraction? type 2 diabetes is associated with an increased risk of heart failure with a preserved ejection fraction (hfpef), but it is not clear whether this metabolic disorder is causal or represents a modifiable risk factor. diabetes mellitus encompasses a spectrum of metabolic disorders characterized by hyperglycemia. metabolic syndrome (mets) encompasses a cluster of interrelated conditions, including obesity, hyperglycemia, hyperlipidemia, and hypertension, and has been established as a significant risk factor for cardiovascular events and heightened mortality. the mechanisms driving elevated risk are complex and variably multifactorial, involving hyperglycemia, insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, inflammation, and a hypercoagulable state. we hypothesized insulin resistance with elevated plasma glucose and potentially myocardial glucose deprivation to contribute to the pathogenesis of tts and investigated the therapeutic benefit of insulin in vivo. in mice, insulin- and glucose injection both improved epi-induced ahf and myocardial damage, indicating insulin resistance rather than detrimental effects of hyperglycaemia itself as the underlying cause. overview and new insights into the metabolic syndrome: risk factors and emerging variables in the development of type 2 diabetes and cerebrocardiovascular disease. these four core risk factors are associated with insulin resistance (ir) and, importantly, the mets is known to increase the risk for developing cerebrocardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus. the risk of type-2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease is higher in subjects with metabolic syndrome, a cluster of clinical conditions characterized by obesity, impaired glucose metabolism, hyperinsulinemia, hyperlipidemia and hypertension.
Are there risk factors that increase the rate of staple line leakage in patients undergoing primary sleeve gastrectomy for morbid obesity? [SEP] staple line leak after primary sleeve gastrectomy-risk factors and mid-term results: do patients still benefit from the weight loss procedure? staple line leak after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (lsg) still represents the most feared complication. the postoperative staple line leak after primary lsg significantly increases postoperative morbidity and mortality. results of more than 11,800 sleeve gastrectomies: data analysis of the german bariatric surgery registry. are there risk factors that increase the rate of staple line leakage in patients undergoing primary sleeve gastrectomy for morbid obesity? laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (lsg) is currently being performed with increasing frequency worldwide. however, the ever present risk of a staple line leak is still a major concern. for the current analysis, all patients that had undergone primary sleeve gastrectomy for morbid obesity within a 7-year period were considered. male gender, higher bmi, concomitant sleep apnea, conversion to laparotomy, longer operation time, use of both buttresses and oversewing, and the occurrence of intraoperative complications were associated with a significantly higher leakage rate. the results of the current study demonstrated that there are factors that increase the risk of a leakage which would enable surgeons to define risk groups, to more carefully select patients, and to offer a closer follow-up during the postoperative course with early recognition and adequate treatment.
Chronic functional somatic symptoms: a single syndrome? [SEP] functional somatic disorders in individuals with a history of sexual assault. prior studies show that sa is associated with functional somatic disorder (fsd). to investigate whether sa is associated with the development of incident fsd, including 3 functional somatic syndromes (fsss), chronic widespread pain (cwp), irritable bowel syndrome (ibs), and chronic fatigue (cf), over 5 years. validation of the persistent somatic symptom stigma scale for healthcare professionals. persistent somatic symptoms (pss) describe recurrent or continuously occurring symptoms such as fatigue, dizziness, or pain that have persisted for at least several months. these include single symptoms such as chronic pain, combinations of symptoms, or functional disorders such as fibromyalgia or irritable bowel syndrome. persistent somatic symptoms (pss) describe recurrent or continuously occurring symptoms such as fatigue, dizziness, or pain that have persisted for at least several months. these include single symptoms such as chronic pain, combinations of symptoms, or functional disorders such as fibromyalgia or irritable bowel syndrome. are sexual assaults related to functional somatic disorders? this study investigated associations between sa and fsd, conceptualized as bodily distress syndrome (bds), and five functional somatic syndromes (fsss): chronic widespread pain (cwp), irritable bowel (ib), chronic fatigue (cf), multiple chemical sensitivity (mcs), and whiplash-associated disorder (wad).
Prevalence of chronic conditions among Medicare Part A beneficiaries in 2008 and 2010: are Medicare beneficiaries getting sicker? [SEP] prevalence of chronic conditions among medicare part a beneficiaries in 2008 and 2010: are medicare beneficiaries getting sicker? medicare beneficiaries who have chronic conditions are responsible for a disproportionate share of medicare fee-for-service expenditures. the objective of this study was to analyze the change in the health of medicare beneficiaries enrolled in part a (hospital insurance) between 2008 and 2010 by comparing the prevalence of 11 chronic conditions. we conducted descriptive analyses using the 2008 and 2010 chronic conditions public use files, which are newly available from the centers for medicare and medicaid services and have administrative (claims) data on 100% of the medicare fee-for-service population. medicare part a beneficiaries had more chronic conditions on average in 2010 than in 2008. the percentage increase in the average number of chronic conditions was larger for dual-eligible beneficiaries (2.8%) than for nondual-eligible beneficiaries (1.2%). the prevalence of some chronic conditions, such as congestive heart failure, ischemic heart disease, and stroke/transient ischemic attack, decreased. the deterioration of average health was due to other chronic conditions: chronic kidney disease, depression, diabetes, osteoporosis, rheumatoid arthritis/osteoarthritis. trends in alzheimer's disease, cancer, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease showed differences by sex or dual eligibility or both. analyzing the prevalence of 11 chronic conditions by using medicare claims data provides a monitoring tool that can guide health care providers and policy makers in devising strategies to address chronic conditions and rising health care costs.
Does successful completion of the Perinatal Education Programme result in improved obstetric practice? [SEP] the training program consisted of 30- to 60-minute didactic sessions for neonatal and perinatal clinicians and staff on labor and delivery and neonatal intensive care units, an esc algorithm for care, and pre- and posttraining surveys. posttraining results demonstrated statistically significant improvement in self-rated preparedness to use nonpharmacologic interventions (mean score 3.91 vs. 4.64, pre- vs. posttraining paired surveys on 5-point scale [1 =  esc education enhanced preparedness of birthing staff and clinicians to implement the nonpharmacologic esc tool for management of nows. perinatal nursing education for single-room maternity care: an evaluation of a competency-based model. scores on the perinatal self-efficacy scale and the single-room maternity care competency tool were improved. improvements in perinatal and single-room maternity care-specific competencies suggest that our education programme was successful in preparing nurses for their new role in the single-room maternity care setting. this conclusion is supported by reported increases in nursing and patient satisfaction in the single-room maternity care compared with the traditional labour/delivery and postpartum settings. does successful completion of the perinatal education programme result in improved obstetric practice? to determine whether successful completion of the perinatal education programme (pep) improves obstetric practice. where problems were detected, appropriate actions taken during labour improved, but not significantly. completion of the obstetric manual of the pep improved the knowledge of the midwives but no alteration in practice was detected.
Do patients with localized prostate cancer treatment really want more aggressive treatment? [SEP] targeted focal therapy for prostate cancer: a review of the literature. improvements in prostate cancer diagnosis and treatment have resulted in a decreasing age-adjusted death rate. do patients with localized prostate cancer treatment really want more aggressive treatment? examine whether patients with prostate cancer choose the more aggressive of two radiotherapeutic options, whether this choice is reasoned, and what the determinants of the choice are. one hundred fifty patients with primary prostate cancer (t(1-3)n(0)m(0)) were informed by means of a decision aid of two treatment options: radiotherapy with 70 gy versus 74 gy. most patients with localized prostate cancer prefer the lower radiation dose. treatment preferences of patients with localized prostate cancer can and should be involved in radiotherapy decision making. to determine how patients weigh potential survival benefits against the potential toxicity of different treatment strategies for locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc). specifically, we were interested in what improvement in survival probability patients would want to have before accepting more toxic therapy. there is great interindividual variability in willingness to accept aggressive treatments for locally advanced nsclc.
Does music influence stress in mechanically ventilated patients? [SEP] influence of music on cortisol levels in mechanically ventilated critically ill patients: a systematic review. music has been proposed as a simple, non-invasive intervention to modulate stress responses in patients undergoing invasive mechanical ventilation (imv). to examine the effectiveness of music interventions in reducing cortisol levels and, consequently, modulating the stress response in mechanically ventilated patients in intensive care units (icus). does music influence stress in mechanically ventilated patients? the purpose of this study was to explore the influence of music on stress in a sample of patients over the duration of ventilatory support. randomised controlled trial; randomised patients (56.8+16.9 years, 61% male, apache iii 57.2+18.3) receiving ventilatory support to: (1) patient-directed music (pdm) where patients self-initiated music listening whenever desired from a preferred collection, (2) headphones only to block icu noise, or (3) usual icu care. influence of music on the stress response in patients receiving mechanical ventilatory support: a pilot study. music is considered an ideal therapy for reducing stress in patients receiving mechanical ventilation. to explore the influence of music on serum biomarkers of the stress response in patients receiving ventilatory support. additional research is needed with a larger sample size to evaluate further the influence of music on biochemical markers of the stress response in patients receiving mechanical ventilatory support.
Does reducing spasticity translate into functional benefit? [SEP] spasticity represents a primary motor impairment in children with cerebral palsy (cp), significantly impacting functional abilities and quality of life. bont-a provides statistically significant short-term reductions in spasticity, with preliminary evidence suggesting potential for early functional gains when combined with rehabilitation. spasticity after stroke impairs motor control, delays recovery, and reduces quality of life. patients treated within 90 days of stroke onset showed greater reductions in spasticity at 4 and 12 weeks compared with later treatment. early toxin administration is associated with enhanced reduction in spasticity and improved motor recovery, particularly in patients with severe initial deficits. from w0 to w4, group b0r0 exhibited the most favorable outcomes in terms of spasticity (mas-elbow flexor and extensor) and kinematic variables, suggesting that the combined application of btx and rt is superior to sole interventions in improving motor function and spasticity. the combination of rt and btx is more effective in enhancing motor function and reducing spasticity in individuals with uls than either intervention alone or no intervention. spasticity is one of the most common secondary complications following a spinal cord injury (sci), which can significantly debilitate a patient irrespective of the severity of the injury. intrathecal baclofen therapy can effectively reduce global spasticity in bilateral lower extremities at lower doses and allows precise dose titration to manage spasticity optimally. however, despite physical interventions, motor impairments including weakness, and the manifestation of abnormal involuntary reflex activity, called spasticity or spasms, are thought to contribute to reduced walking recovery.
Is the holmium:YAG laser the best intracorporeal lithotripter for the ureter? [SEP] 
Metered-dose inhalers. Do health care providers know what to teach? [SEP] [assessment of general practitioners' knowledge of inhalers]. internists in training; what do they know about inhalers? [instructing patients in the correct use of inhalation devices]. metered-dose inhalers: do emergency health care providers know what to teach? to evaluate the ability of emergency health care providers and patients to demonstrate the proper use of metered-dose inhalers (mdis). what do pediatricians in training know about the correct use of inhalers and spacer devices? metered-dose inhalers. the specific aim of this investigation was to evaluate the proficiency of health care providers and patients in the proper use of metered-dose inhalers. patients who attended the primary care general medicine and pulmonary subspecialty clinic were also assessed as to their proficiency in the use of metered-dose inhalers. it also demonstrates a significant lack of understanding by health care providers of the proper use of metered-dose inhalers.
Does the bracket-ligature combination affect the amount of orthodontic space closure over three months? [SEP] does the bracket-ligature combination affect the amount of orthodontic space closure over three months? to investigate the effect of bracket-ligature combination on the amount of orthodontic space closure over three months. a hospital orthodontic department (chesterfield royal hospital, uk). informed consent was obtained and participants were randomly allocated into one of three groups: (1) conventional pre-adjusted edgewise brackets and elastomeric ligatures; (2) conventional pre-adjusted edgewise brackets and super slick(®) low friction elastomeric ligatures; (3) damon 3mx(®) passive self-ligating brackets. space closure was undertaken on 0·019×0·025-inch stainless steel archwires with nickel-titanium coil springs. the primary outcome measure was the mean amount of space closure in a 3-month period. the amount of space closure was very similar between the three groups (1 mm per 28 days); however, there was a wide variation in the rate of space closure between individuals. the differences in the amount of space closure over three months between the three groups was very small and non-significant (p = 0·718). the hypothesis that reducing friction by modifying the bracket/ligature interface increases the rate of space closure was not supported. the major determinant of orthodontic tooth movement is probably the individual patient response.
Health habits and vaccination status of Lebanese residents: are future doctors applying the rules of prevention? [SEP] [health habits and vaccination status of lebanese residents: are future doctors applying the rules of prevention?]. this study evaluated the health practices and the vaccination status of first year residents working at the academic hospital hôtel-dieu de france. the medical files of all medicine and surgery residents in their first year of specialization between the years 2005 and 2008 were reviewed. these residents were required to go through a preventive medical visit at the university center of family and community health. only 6 residents (5.50%) practiced physical activity according to international guidelines (more than three times a week for more than 30 minutes each time). only 25 residents (23%) of the cohort had a complete and up-to-date immunization status. the immunization gap was basically against measles, mumps, rubella (mmr) and diphtheria, tetanus, poliomyelitis (dt polio). ninety-nine residents (90.83%) had full immunization against hepatitis b with an adequate response in 78 residents (71.56%). they also lacked an adequate vaccination. interventions should take place in order to promote healthy life style and to improve their vaccination status.
Should general practitioners call patients by their first names? [SEP] forms of address between patients and general practitioners is an underexplored area which may influence productive dialogue within a consultation. this article aims to describe how australian patients prefer to be addressed by their gp, how patients prefer to address their gp, and the factors influencing these preferences. twenty consecutive patients of 13 randomly selected gps (n=260) were surveyed on preferences for use of names in consultations and the factors influencing these preferences. ninety percent of patients prefer to be addressed by their first name. thirty-five percent of patients prefer to call the gp by first name, 27% by title and last name, 21% by title only, and 10% by title and first name. should general practitioners call patients by their first names? to assess the acceptability to patients of the use of patients' first names by doctors and doctors' first names by patients in general practice. response by patients to questionnaire on attitude to use of first names. most patients (324) did not, however, want to call the doctor by his or her first name. general practitioners should consider using patients' first names more often, particularly with younger patients.
Transesophageal echocardiographic assessment of left ventricular function in brain-dead patients: are marginally acceptable hearts suitable for transplantation? [SEP] transesophageal echocardiographic assessment of left ventricular function in brain-dead patients: are marginally acceptable hearts suitable for transplantation? the brain-dead donor supply has become one of the criteria limiting the performance of heart transplantation. echocardiography is now widely available and is a reliable tool to assess left ventricular dysfunction in brain-dead donors. yet few data are available on the degree of left ventricular dysfunction where a transplantation is possible. fifty-five potential brain-dead heart donors (age 38 +/- 11 years) were prospectively evaluated by transesophageal echocardiography (tee) before harvesting. fractional area change (fac) was used to assess left ventricular function in potential brain-dead donors. transplanted hearts were evaluated on the fifth postoperative day. the transplantation was considered a success if the recipient was alive, not retransplanted, without an assistance device or an epinephrine infusion of more than 1 mg/h and showed an ejection fraction above 40%. tee is useful to assess left ventricular function in potential brain-dead donors. because left ventricular dysfunction is often reversible shortly after transplantation, an fac below 50% may not necessarily preclude the use of hearts for transplantation.
Attenuation of ischemia/reperfusion-induced ovarian damage in rats: does edaravone offer protection? [SEP] attenuation of ischemia/reperfusion-induced ovarian damage in rats: does edaravone offer protection? the aim of this study was to investigate whether prophylactic treatment with edaravone prevents ischemia/reperfusion (i/r)-induced ovarian damage during pneumoperitoneum in an experimental rat model. immediately after the reperfusion period, both ovaries were excised for histological scoring, caspase-3 immunohistochemistry and biochemical evaluation including glutathione (gsh) and malondialdehyde (mda) levels. also, total antioxidant capacity (tac) was measured in plasma samples to evaluate the antioxidant effect of edaravone. ovarian sections in the saline group revealed higher scores for follicular degeneration and edema (p < 0.0001) when compared with the sham group. administration of different doses of edaravone in rats significantly prevented degenerative changes in the ovary (p < 0.0001). caspase-3 expression was only detected in the ovarian surface epithelium in all groups, and there was a significant difference between the treatment groups and the saline group (p < 0.0001). treatment of rats with edaravone reduced caspase-3 expression in a dose-dependent manner. moreover, biochemical measurements of oxidative stress markers (mda, gsh and tac) revealed that prophylactic edaravone treatment attenuated oxidative stress induced by i/r injury. these results indicate that prophylactic treatment with edaravone prevents i/r-induced ovarian damage during pneumoperitoneum in an experimental rat model.
Does the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale favor left hemisphere strokes? [SEP] the conversion rates were numerically higher in right than in left hemispheric occlusions (1.6% vs 1.2%; or 1.37, 95% ci 0.59 to 3.19, p=0.47) and in milder than in more severe strokes (nihss ≤15 vs >15: 2% vs 1.2%; or 0.62, 95% ci 0.28 to 1.36, p=0.23). does the national institutes of health stroke scale favor left hemisphere strokes? ninds t-pa stroke study group. the national institutes of health stroke scale (nihss) is a valid, reproducible scale that measures neurological deficit. we examined the placebo arm of the ninds t-pa stroke trial to test the hypothesis that the total volume of cerebral infarction in patients with right hemisphere strokes would be greater than the volume of cerebral infarction in patients with left hemisphere strokes who have similar nihss scores. the volume for right hemisphere stroke was statistically greater than the volume for left hemisphere strokes, adjusting for the baseline nihss (p<0. for example, for patients with a left hemisphere stroke and a 24-hour nihss score of 16 to 20, the median volume of cerebral infarction was 48 ml (interquartile range 14 to 111 ml) as compared with 133 ml (interquartile range 81 to 208 ml) for patients with a right hemisphere stroke (p<0.001). the median volume of a right hemisphere stroke was roughly equal to the median volume of a left hemisphere stroke in the next highest 5-point category of the nihss. the spearman rank correlation between the 24-hour nihss score and 3-month lesion volume was 0.72 for patients with left hemisphere stroke and 0.71 for patients with right hemisphere stroke. for a given nihss score, the median volume of right hemisphere strokes is consistently larger than the median volume of left hemisphere strokes.
Can a Novel Surgical Approach to the Temporomandibular Joint Improve Access and Reduce Complications? [SEP] 
Is vitamin D deficiency a feature of pediatric celiac disease? [SEP] vitamin d and calcium-phosphorus in serum of children with celiac disease in a zone of high sunlight exposure. the relationship between vitamin d levels and celiac disease (ced) in children remains controversial. there are few studies on the vitamin d status of children with celiac disease in an area of high insolation. children with ced had significantly lower mean serum 25(oh)d levels (14.8 ± 1.04 ng/ml) compared to controls (45.1 ± 8.04 ng/ml;  children with celiac disease living in a region with increased sun light exposure showed a high prevalence of vitamin d deficiency. in our study, vitamin d deficiency in patients with celiac disease was associated with more severe clinical manifestations. prevalence and management of vitamin d deficiency in children with newly diagnosed coeliac disease: cohort study. coeliac disease (cd) causes deficiency of various micronutrients including vitamin d, and there are no specific guidelines for treatment. to determine the prevalence of vitamin d deficiency in children newly diagnosed with cd and the role of oral high-dose vitamin d in its treatment. spectrum of celiac disease in paediatric population: experience of tertiary care center from pakistan. is vitamin d deficiency a feature of pediatric celiac disease?
Is unsafe sexual behaviour increasing among HIV-infected individuals? [SEP] condom use increased (or > 1, p > 99%) with age, and was higher in those who had intercourse with a sex worker or with a female partner and in those with knowledge of the partner's hiv status. increased rates of hepatitis c virus (hcv) infection among hiv-infected men who have sex with men (msm) and who deny injecting drugs have been reported in resource-rich settings. alcohol consumption, risky sexual behaviors, and hiv in nigeria: a meta-analytic review. alcohol consumption is associated with risky sex, which increases the risk of acquiring and transmitting hiv. participants who consumed alcohol were more likely to report sexual activity (or = 3.66, 95% ci = 3.09, 4.33), multiple partners (or = 3.22, 95% ci = 2.38, 4.36), and condomless sex or inconsistent use of condoms (or = 2.30, 95% ci = 1.54, 3.43). sexual risk behavior among hiv-infected women in south africa at 12-months postpartum. in conclusion, hiv and syphilis co-infection were associated with frequent uai with casual sex partners, inadequate adherence to art and limited partner notification. a longitudinal study of the relationship between intimate partner violence and postpartum unsafe sex among newly diagnosed hiv-infected south african women. one factor that may increase risk for postpartum unsafe sex among hiv-positive women is intimate partner violence (ipv) victimization; few studies, however, have examined this association. this longitudinal study examined whether patterns of psychological, physical, and sexual ipv, assessed during pregnancy, predicted unsafe sex at 14 weeks postpartum among south african women diagnosed as hiv-positive during pregnancy (n = 561).
Cholestasis associated with small bowel atresia: do we always need to investigate? [SEP] cholestasis associated with small bowel atresia: do we always need to investigate? cholestasis occurs frequently in patients with small bowel atresia (sba) and is often attributed to prolonged parental nutrition. we characterized cholestasis and analyzed the pertinence of investigating this patient population. cholestasis was evaluated for incidence, severity, and evolution. of 53, 24 (45%) patients developed cholestasis postoperatively (direct/total bilirubin >20%). all patients with short bowel (4) and 60% (6/10) of patients with a delay of enteral feeding more than 14 days postoperatively had cholestasis. ten patients (36%) proceeded with in-depth evaluations for cholestasis, with 8 (28%) undergoing liver biopsy. no deaths were related to isolated cholestasis/cirrhosis. small bowel atresia is frequently associated with postoperative cholestasis that will resolve with time. we recommend a more selective and expectant approach to sba-associated cholestasis to minimize unnecessary investigations.
Are financial incentives cost-effective to support smoking cessation during pregnancy? [SEP] financial rewards for smoking cessation during pregnancy and birth weight: a meta-analysis. in this meta-analysis, neonates were significantly heavier when pregnant women were offered the addition of financial rewards contingent on smoking cessation, supporting the effectiveness and, therefore, cost-effectiveness of financial rewards in this health care setting. financial incentives for quitting smoking in pregnancy: are they cost-effective? to evaluate whether adding financial incentives to usual care is cost-effective in encouraging pregnant women to quit tobacco smoking, compared with usual care alone. economic analysis of financial incentives for smoking cessation during pregnancy and postpartum. higgins and colleagues' recently-completed randomized controlled trial and pooled data with 4 related trials of smoking cessation in pregnant women in vermont (usa) showed that abstinence-contingent financial incentives (fi) increased abstinence over control conditions from early pregnancy through 24-weeks postpartum. cost-effectiveness of stop smoking incentives for medicaid-enrolled pregnant women. the first breath wisconsin study examined the cost-effectiveness of providing incentives to pregnant women who smoked to engage in stop smoking treatment. this study shows use of financial incentives for stop smoking treatment is a cost-effective option for low-income pregnant women who smoke. financial incentives are an effective way of helping women to stop smoking during pregnancy.
Can medical students contribute to quality assurance programmes in day surgery? [SEP] 
Measurement of head and neck paragangliomas: is volumetric analysis worth the effort? [SEP] measurement of head and neck paragangliomas: is volumetric analysis worth the effort? a method comparison study. the aim of this study was to assess the reproducibility of different measurement methods and define the most workable technique for measuring head and neck paragangliomas, to determine the best method for evaluating tumour growth. the evaluation of tumour growth is vital for a 'wait-and-scan' policy, a management strategy that became increasingly important. thirty tumours, including carotid body, vagal body, jugulotympanic tumours and conglomerates of multiple tumours, were measured in duplicate, using linear dimensions, manual area tracing and an automated segmentation method. the smallest detectable difference using the linear dimension method was 11% for carotid body and 27% for vagal body tumours, compared with 17% and 20% for the manual area tracing method. due to the irregular shape of paragangliomas in the temporal bone and conglomerates, the manual area tracing method showed better results in these tumours (26% and 8% versus 54% and 47%). due to a relatively good reproducibility, fast and easy application, we found the linear dimension method to be the most pragmatic approach for evaluation of growth of carotid and vagal body paragangliomas. for jugulotympanic tumours, the preferred method is manual area tracing. however, volumetric changes of these tumours may be of less clinical importance than changes in relation to surrounding anatomical structures.
Three-dimensional ultrasound-validated large-core needle biopsy: is it a reliable method for the histological assessment of breast lesions? [SEP] three-dimensional ultrasound-validated large-core needle biopsy: is it a reliable method for the histological assessment of breast lesions? the use of three-dimensional (3d) ultrasound may help to determine the exact position of the needle during breast biopsy, thereby reducing the number of core samples that are needed to achieve a reliable histological diagnosis. the aim of this study was to demonstrate the efficacy of 3d ultrasound-validated large-core needle biopsy (lcnb) of the breast. a total of 360 core needle biopsies was obtained from 169 breast lesions in 146 patients. additional open breast biopsy was performed in 111 women (127/169 breast lesions); the remaining 42 lesions were followed up for at least 24 months. 3d ultrasound visualization of the needle in the postfiring position was used to classify the biopsy as central, marginal or outside the lesion. based on this classification it was decided whether another sample had to be obtained. a median of two core samples per lesion provided for all the lesions a sensitivity for malignancy of 96.9%, specificity of 100%, false-positive rate of 0% and false-negative rate of 3.1%, and for the excised lesions a sensitivity of 96.5%, specificity of 100%, false-positive rate of 0%, false-negative rate of 3.5% and an underestimation rate of 3.4%. 3d ultrasound validation of the postfiring needle position is an efficient adjunct to ultrasound-guided lcnb. the advantages of 3d ultrasound validation are likely to include a reduction in the number of core samples needed to achieve a reliable histological diagnosis (and a possible reduction in the risk of tumor cell displacement), reduced procedure time and lower costs.
Can bone thickness and inter-radicular space affect miniscrew placement in posterior mandibular sites? [SEP] can bone thickness and inter-radicular space affect miniscrew placement in posterior mandibular sites? the proper angle of miniscrew insertion is important for cortical anchorage, patient safety, and biomechanical control. the purposes of this study are to report the alveolar process thickness and inter-radicular space in the posterior region of the mandible, to assess the impact of different miniscrew insertion angle protocols, and to identify differences between the genders or types of malocclusion. the predictor variable was the location in the mandible and insertion angle. the primary outcome variables were bone thickness and inter-radicular space. the inter-radicular spaces were evaluated 5 mm from the cement-enamel junction. the bone thicknesses were taken at 45°, 60°, and 90° in relation to the alveolar ridge, simulating a miniscrew insertion. to compare the inter-radicular space and the thickness of bone between areas, an analysis of variance for repeated measures was used. the inter-radicular space ranged from 2.46 to 3.31 mm, and alveolar bone thickness ranged from 8.01 to 13.77 mm. the results of this study suggest that the safest areas for the placement of miniscrews are between the first and second premolars and between the first and second molars, regardless of the angle of insertion.
Do general practice selection scores predict success at MRCGP? [SEP] do general practice selection scores predict success at mrcgp? selection into general practice training is undertaken using a competency based approach. however, the relationship between selection and performance in the royal college of general practitioner examinations (mrcgp) has yet to be explored. the mrcgp comprises of an applied knowledge test (akt), a clinical skills assessment (csa) and workplace-based assessments (wpba). to explore the predictive validity of general practice selection scores using the akt and csa elements of the mrcgp as a final outcome measure. this study carried out a retrospective analysis of 101 trainees from the wales deanery who were successfully selected on to general practice training in 2007. selection data consisted of an overall selection score as well as scores from each individual stage of selection. correlation was used to explore associations between selection scores and examination scores. the score for overall performance at selection achieved statistically significant correlation with examination performance (r = 0.491 for the akt and r = 0.526 for the csa, p <0.01). the general practice selection process is predictive of future performance in the mrcgp.
The Deformity Angular Ratio: Does It Correlate With High-Risk Cases for Potential Spinal Cord Monitoring Alerts in Pediatric 3-Column Thoracic Spinal Deformity Corrective Surgery? [SEP] the deformity angular ratio: does it correlate with high-risk cases for potential spinal cord monitoring alerts in pediatric 3-column thoracic spinal deformity corrective surgery? the purpose of this study was to determine whether the deformity angular ratio (dar) can reliably assess the neurological risks of patients undergoing deformity correction. identifying high-risk patients and procedures can help ensure that appropriate measures are taken to minimize neurological complications during spinal deformity corrections. subjectively, surgeons look at radiographs and evaluate the riskiness of the procedure. however, 2 curves of similar magnitude and location can have significantly different risks of neurological deficit during surgery. the data from 35 pediatric spinal deformity correction procedures with thoracic 3-column osteotomies were reviewed. binary logistic regression was used to model the relationship between dars (independent variables) and presence or absence of an intraoperative alert (dependent variable). in patients undergoing 3-column osteotomies, sagittal curve magnitude and total curve magnitude were associated with increased incidence of transcranial motor evoked potential changes. in patients undergoing 3-column osteotomies for severe spinal deformities, the dar was predictive of patients developing intraoperative motor evoked potential alerts. identifying accurate radiographical, patient, and procedural risk factors in the correction of severe deformities can help prepare the surgical team to improve safety and outcomes when carrying out complex spinal corrections.
Does age moderate the effect of personality disorder on coping style in psychiatric inpatients? [SEP] does age moderate the effect of personality disorder on coping style in psychiatric inpatients? to examine age-related differences in the relationship between personality and coping strategies in an australian population of psychiatric inpatients. consenting eligible adults (n=238) from 18-100 years of age consecutively admitted to inpatient psychiatry units were assessed using the scid i and ii, the coping orientations to problems experienced scale (cope), the brief psychiatric rating scale (bprs), the global assessment of functioning scale (gaf), the social and occupational functioning assessment scale (sofas), the 12 item short-form heath survey (sf12), the sarason social support questionnaire, and the neo five factor inventory (neo-ffi) (cognitively impaired, and non-english speaking patients were excluded). older adults reported less symptomatology than younger patients and younger patients described more personality dysfunction than older patients. as assessed by the cope, older adults reported lower levels of dysfunctional coping strategies than younger adults. personality traits, social supports, gender, and age predicted coping strategies, while axis i diagnosis, education, personality disorder, and symptom severity were not significant predictors of coping strategies. this study found that influences on coping were multifactorial and moderated by age. these factors have implications for interventions designed to enhance coping strategies.
Autoxidation products of both carbohydrates and lipids are increased in uremic plasma: is there oxidative stress in uremia? [SEP] oxidative protein damage with carbohydrates and lipids in uremia: 'carbonyl stress'. chronic uremia appears to be in a state of an increased oxidative stress. ages, pentosidine and carboxymethyllysine (cml), and ale, malondialdehyde (mda)-lysine, are elevated in plasma and matrix proteins of uremic patients several times above normal subjects. precursor carbonyl compounds derived from carbohydrates and lipids are indeed elevated in uremic circulation. proteins modified under carbonyl stress exhibit several biological activities, which might, at least in part, account for the development of joint and vascular complications in uremia. autoxidation products of both carbohydrates and lipids are increased in uremic plasma: is there oxidative stress in uremia? recent studies, however, have demonstrated that one age, the glycoxidation product carboxymethyllysine (cml), could be derived not only from carbohydrates but also from oxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids in vitro, raising the possibility that both carbohydrate and lipid autoxidation might be increased in uremia. these data suggest that the increased levels of ages in blood, and probably in tissues, reported in uremia implicate a broad derangement in non-enzymatic biochemistry involving alterations in autoxidation of both carbohydrates and lipids. imidazolium crosslinks derived from reaction of lysine with glyoxal and methylglyoxal are increased in serum proteins of uremic patients: evidence for increased oxidative stress in uremia. these results provide strong evidence for increased non-enzymatic crosslinking of tissue proteins by go and mgo in uremia, implicating oxidative stress and resultant advanced glycation and lipoxidation reactions in tissue damage in uremia.
Can 'high-risk' human papillomaviruses (HPVs) be detected in human breast milk? [SEP] 
Quaternary cytoreductive surgery in ovarian cancer: does surgical effort still matter? [SEP] quaternary cytoreductive surgery in ovarian cancer: does surgical effort still matter? to evaluate surgical outcome and survival benefit after quaternary cytoreduction (qc) in epithelial ovarian cancer (eoc) relapse. all relevant surgical and clinical outcome parameters were systematically assessed. forty-nine eoc patients (median age: 57; range: 28-76) underwent qc; in a median of 16 months (range:2-142) after previous chemotherapy. at qc, patients presented following tumour pattern: lower abdomen 85.7%; middle abdomen 79.6% and upper abdomen 42.9%. median duration of surgery was 292 min (range: a total macroscopic tumour clearance could be achieved. rates of major operative morbidity and 30-day mortality were 28.6% and 2%, respectively.mean follow-up from qc was 18.41 months (95% confidence interval (ci):12.64-24.18) and mean overall survival (os) 23.05 months (95% ci: 15.5-30.6). mean os for patients without vs any tumour residuals was 43 months (95% ci: 26.4-59.5) vs 13.4 months (95% ci: 7.42-19.4); p=0.001. mean os for patients who received postoperative chemotherapy (n=18; 36.7%) vs those who did not was 40.5 months (95% ci: 27.4-53.6) vs 12.03 months (95% ci: 5.9-18.18); p<0.001.multivariate analysis indentified multifocal tumour dissemination to be of predictive significance for incomplete tumour resection, higher operative morbidity and lower survival, while systemic chemotherapy subsequent to qc had a protective significant impact on os. even in this highly advanced setting of the third eoc relapse, maximal therapeutic effort combining optimal surgery and chemotherapy appear to significantly prolong survival in a selected patients 'group'.
Chemotherapy and survival in advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma: is pneumologists' skepticism justified? [SEP] [chemotherapy and survival in advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma: is pneumologists' skepticism justified?]. few studies have assessed whether the advantage chemotherapy has been shown to have in treating advanced non-small lung carcinoma in clinical trials is transferrable to normal health care activity. this could explain the skepticism of a large number of pneumologists towards this treatment. the objective of our study was to analyze prognostic factors related to survival and to see whether cytostatic treatment was an independent predictor. patients enrolled in the study had been diagnosed with non-small cell carcinoma in stages iv or iiib with pleural or n2-n3 involvement and with a performance status of 2 or below according to the eastern cooperative oncology group (ecog). survival was analyzed with regard to the following variables: age, sex, comorbidity, weight loss, laboratory test results, histological type, ecog score, tnm staging, and treatment. the median survival was 31 weeks and was related to absence of weight loss (hazard ratio [hr], 1.73; 95% confidence interval [ci], 1.26-2.39; p=.001), cytostatic treatment (hr, 1.85; 95% ci, 1.25-2.76; p=.002), and ecog score of 0 to 1 (hr, 2.84; 95% ci, 1.62-5.00; p=.0001). survival in the ecog 2 group was 15 weeks for patients undergoing cytostatic treatment and 11 weeks for patients with symptomatic treatment. in normal clinical practice, chemotherapy significantly prolongs survival in patients with performance status of less than 2, more time being gained if there is no associated weight loss. we conclude that the reluctance shown by many pneumologists toward using this treatment is not entirely justified.
Does topical ropivacaine reduce the post-tonsillectomy morbidity in pediatric patients? [SEP] does topical ropivacaine reduce the post-tonsillectomy morbidity in pediatric patients? to determine whether post-operative administration of topical ropivacaine hydrochloride decreases morbidity following adenotonsillectomy. fourty one children, aged 4-16 years, undergoing tonsillectomy. patients received 1.0% ropivacaine hydrochloride soaked swabs packed in their tonsillar fossae while the control group received saline-soaked swabs. only first hour there was no significant pain-relieving effect seen in the ropivacaine group (p>0.05). also, the other post-operative parameters such as nausea, fever, vomiting, odor, bleeding, otalgia and trismus were not statistically different between the two groups. there were no complications associated with ropivacaine hydrochloride. locally 1.0% ropivacaine administration significantly relieves the pain of pediatric tonsillectomy and, it is a safe and effective method. high concentrations of ropivaciane may produce clinically significant pain relief. it is more effective to reduce of post-operative analgesic requirement after first hour.
Is pain a clinically relevant problem in general adult psychiatry? [SEP] 
Does concomitant anterior/apical repair during midurethral sling improve the overactive bladder component of mixed incontinence? [SEP] does concomitant anterior/apical repair during midurethral sling improve the overactive bladder component of mixed incontinence? midurethral sling (mus) can improve overactive bladder (oab) symptoms. it is unclear if anterior/apical prolapse (aa) repair provides additional benefit. we hypothesized that women with mixed urinary incontinence (mui) experience greater improvement in the oab component of their symptoms after concomitant mus and aa repair compared with mus alone. this is a retrospective cohort study of women with bothersome mui (defined by objective stress test and validated questionnaire) undergoing mus alone ("mus-only") or concomitant mus and aa repair ("mus + aa"). our primary outcome was the overactive bladder questionnaire symptom severity (oab-q ss) change score 6 weeks after surgery. of 151 women, 67 (44 %) underwent mus-only and 84 (56 %) underwent mus + aa. the mus-only cohort was younger and had less severe baseline prolapse (p < 0.05 for both). for all subjects mean oab-q ss scores significantly improved postoperatively (p < 0.05). in women with bothersome mui, concomitant aa repair does not result in additional improvement in oab symptoms over mus alone.
Does the use of atypical antipsychotics as adjunctive therapy in depression result in cost savings? [SEP] 
Diagnostic and therapeutic ureteroscopy: is dilatation of ureteral meatus always necessary? [SEP] [diagnostic and therapeutic ureteroscopy: is dilatation of ureteral meatus always necessary?]. to assess the feasibility and safety of diagnostic or therapeutic semirigid ureteroscopy without ureteral meatus dilatation. a comparative, retrospective study was conducted of patients undergoing ureteroscopy from january 2000 to may 2008. for data analysis purposes, the population was divided into two groups based on whether ureteroscopy had been performed with (group 1) or without (group 2) ureteral meatus dilatation. in selected cases, ureteroscopy may be performed without ureteral meatus dilatation with success and morbidity rates similar to when the procedure is performed with meatal dilatation. diagnosis and treatment of ureteral calculi during pregnancy with rigid ureteroscopes. we focused on the usefulness of ureteroscopy with thin instruments and ultrasound in the diagnosis and treatment of ureteral stone and ureteral colic during pregnancy. all patients underwent ureteroscopy with thin rigid 7.0f or 9.5f ureteroscopes without dilation of the ureteral meatus. rigid ureteroscopy may be performed on the entire urinary tract even during advanced pregnancy. the use of small instruments, such as the gautier ureteroscope, that do not require dilation or any particular manipulation of the ureteral meatus seems to be essential together with an accurate ureteroscopic technique.
Knee extensor strength, dynamic stability, and functional ambulation: are they related in Parkinson's disease? [SEP] knee extensor strength, dynamic stability, and functional ambulation: are they related in parkinson's disease? to evaluate the relationship between knee extensor strength, postural stability, functional ambulation, and disease severity in parkinson's disease (pd). participants were evaluated on their isokinetic knee extensor strength. additionally, participants completed an assessment of their postural stability (functional reach test for static stability and a dynamic postural stability assessment as measured by the center of pressure-center of mass moment arm during gait initiation). lastly, participants were evaluated by a neurologist specially trained in movement disorders to assess neurologic status and disease severity using the unified parkinson's disease rating scale and the hoehn and yahr disability score. knee extensor strength positively correlated with dynamic postural stability and negatively correlated with disease severity. further, dynamic postural stability was negatively correlated to disease severity and positively correlated with functional ambulation in this cohort of patients with pd (p<.05). the results also suggest that the functional reach test may be a valuable assessment tool to examine postural stability in pd. these findings suggest a malleable relationship between knee extensor strength, dynamic stability, and disease severity in pd. although strength is only one piece of the puzzle in the functional outcome of pd, these findings may assist clinicians in designing appropriate interventions aimed at increasing function and decreasing fall risk in pd.
Is distance to provider a barrier to care for medicaid patients with breast, colorectal, or lung cancer? [SEP] radon exposure as an occupational hazard and environmental risk factor for lung cancer in utah: assessment, mitigation, and policy implications. radon is the second leading cause of lung cancer in the united states and a major environmental and occupational health concern. despite utah's relatively low smoking prevalence, lung cancer remains a significant public health issue, suggesting that radon exposure may play a critical role. it highlights how cancer registry data, particularly from the utah cancer registry (ucr), can be used to assess regional cancer patterns, identify high-risk populations, and support targeted public health interventions. integrating environmental and occupational exposure data within cancer registries is essential to guide effective radon mitigation and strengthen evidence-based policy in utah and similar high-risk regions. relationship between case volume and outcomes for pulmonary resection for lung cancer at safety-net hospitals. safety-net hospital (snh) status is associated with high perioperative morbidity in pulmonary resection. multiple etiologies have been proposed, including delays in diagnosis and inefficient care pathways. care at high-volume centers remained associated with significantly reduced likelihood of overall major morbidity (adjusted odds ratio [aor], 0.81; 95% ci, 0.68-0.97), respiratory complications (aor, 0.79; 95% ci, 0.65-0.96), need for blood transfusion (aor, 0.67; 95% ci, 0.48-0.93), and nonhome discharge (aor, 0.66; 95% ci, 0.48-0.88). care at high-volume centers was also associated with a decrease in duration of hospitalization (β = -1.02 days; 95% ci, -1.48 to -0.54 days) and overall expenditures (β = -$4360; 95% ci, -$7020 to -$1700).
Can folic acid protect against congenital heart defects in Down syndrome? [SEP] can folic acid protect against congenital heart defects in down syndrome? several studies have suggested a protective effect of folic acid (fa) on congenital heart anomalies. down syndrome (ds) infants are known to have a high frequency of heart anomalies. not all children with ds suffer from heart anomalies, which raises the question whether maternal factors might affect the risk of these anomalies. our objectives were to investigate whether first-trimester fa use protects against heart anomalies among ds children. women with liveborn ds children participating in the slone epidemiology center birth defects study between 1976 and 1997 were included. we performed case-control analyses using ds, with heart anomalies as cases and ds, without heart anomalies as controls. subanalyses were performed for defects that have been associated with fa in non-ds populations (conotruncal, ventricular septal [vsd]) and for those that are associated with ds (ostium secundum type atrial septal defects [asd] and endocardial cushion defects [ecd]). after adjustment for possible confounders, no protective effect of fa was found on heart anomalies overall (or 0.95, 95% ci: 0.61-1.47) nor separately for conotruncal defects, vsds, asds, or ecds. our study does not show a protective effect of fa on heart anomalies among infants with ds.
Does type 1 diabetes mellitus affect Achilles tendon response to a 10 km run? [SEP] does type 1 diabetes mellitus affect achilles tendon response to a 10 km run? achilles tendon structure deteriorates 2-days after maximal loading in elite athletes. the load-response behaviour of tendons may be altered in type 1 diabetes mellitus (t1dm) as hyperglycaemia accelerates collagen cross-linking. this study compared achilles tendon load-response in participants with t1dm and controls. achilles tendon structure was quantified at day-0, day-2 and day-4 after a 10 km run. ultrasound tissue characterisation (utc) measures tendon structural integrity by classifying pixels as echo-type i, ii, iii or iv. all regularly ran distances greater than 5 km and visa-a scores indicated good tendon function (t1dm = 94 ± 11, control = 94 ± 10). baseline tendon structure was similar in t1dm and control groups - utc echo-types (i-iv) and anterior-posterior thickness were all p > 0.05. active individuals with t1dm do not have a heightened achilles tendon response to load, which suggests no increased risk of tendon injury. we cannot extrapolate these findings to sedentary individuals with t1dm.
Fragility of the esophageal mucosa: a pathognomonic endoscopic sign of primary eosinophilic esophagitis? [SEP] fragility of the esophageal mucosa: a pathognomonic endoscopic sign of primary eosinophilic esophagitis? primary eosinophilic esophagitis, a chronic inflammatory disorder of the esophagus, evokes recurrent dysphagia. endoscopy is often unremarkable, and no consensus exists regarding management of resultant dysphagia. the response of a series of patients with primary eosinophilic esophagitis to dilation is reported together with a description of a possibly pathognomonic sign: fragile esophageal mucosa, for which the term "crêpe-paper" mucosa is introduced. five men underwent endoscopy because of dysphagia confirmed (clinically, endoscopically, and histologically) to be caused by primary eosinophilic esophagitis and were treated by bouginage. all patients had extremely fragile, inelastic, and delicate mucosa, which tore easily even with minor trauma. after the procedure, patients remained asymptomatic for 3 to 24 months. primary eosinophilic esophagitis is characterized by fragile esophageal mucosa that readily tears in response to minor trauma during otherwise uneventful diagnostic endoscopy. this "crêpe-paper" sign may alert endoscopists to the presence of the disease when other mucosal alterations are lacking. dilation is effective for patients with symptoms with minimal morbidity, despite development of disquieting lesions in response to the procedure.
Does cup-cage reconstruction with oversized cups provide initial stability in THA for osteoporotic acetabular fractures? [SEP] does cup-cage reconstruction with oversized cups provide initial stability in tha for osteoporotic acetabular fractures? the incidence of acetabular fractures in osteoporotic patients is increasing. immediate total hip arthroplasty (tha) has potential advantages, but achieving acetabular component stability is challenging and, at early followup, reported revision rates for loosening are high. this study measured acetabular component stability and the initial surface contact achieved between the acetabular component and unfractured region of the pelvis after tha using an oversized acetabular component and cup-cage reconstruction. between november 2011 and november 2013, we treated 40 acute acetabular fractures in patients older than 70 years of age. of these, 12 (30%) underwent immediate tha using an oversized acetabular component with screws inserted only into the ilium and a cup-cage construct. indications for immediate tha after acetabular fractures were displaced articular comminution deemed unreducible. acetabular component migration was defined as acceptable if less than the limits for primary tha that predict later loosening (1.76 mm of proximal migration and 2.53° of sagittal rotation). the contact surface achieved at surgery between the acetabular component and pelvis ranged from 11 to 17 cm(2) (15%-27% of each component). the majority of acetabular components in this cohort were stable despite the small contact surface achieved between the component and pelvic bone.
Pulmonary valve replacement in adults late after repair of tetralogy of fallot: are we operating too late? [SEP] complete surgical repair of tetralogy of fallot in adults, is it ever too late? a minority of patients with tetralogy of fallot (tf) survive into adulthood. during the follow-up period four patients required re-operation; two for residual ventricular septal defect, one for residual pulmonary stenosis and one had pulmonary valve replacement for severe pulmonary regurgitation. pulmonary valve replacement in adults late after repair of tetralogy of fallot: are we operating too late? chronic pulmonary regurgitation (pr) following repair of tetralogy of fallot (tof) leads to rv dilation and an increased incidence of sudden cardiac death in adult patients. improved right ventricular function following late pulmonary valve replacement for residual pulmonary insufficiency or stenosis. residual severe pulmonary insufficiency or stenosis may result in significant myocardial dysfunction late after repair of tetralogy of fallot. we undertook pulmonary valve replacement in 11 patients to treat residual insufficiency (n = 8) or stenosis (n = 3) and evaluated them before and after operation by radionuclide ventriculography and m-mode echocardiography. indications for pulmonary valve replacement were conduit stenosis indicated by a gradient greater than or equal to 75 mm hg (n = 3), symptoms (n = 2), progressive cardiomegaly (n = 3), and new onset of tricuspid insufficiency (n = 3). these data demonstrate objective improvement in right ventricular function following pulmonary valve replacement and confirm the usefulness of this procedure in patients with significant right ventricular dysfunction secondary to residual pulmonary insufficiency and stenosis.
Xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis: a premalignant condition? [SEP] histological examination of the surgical specimens showed chronic cholecystitis (n = 1319) (67,29%), acute cholecystitis (n = 117) (5,96%), cholestrolosis (n = 255) (13%), follicular cholecystitis (n = 230) (11,73%), xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis (n = 6) (0,30%), cholesterol polyps (n = 5) (0,255), tubular adenoma (n = 3) (0,15%), mucocele (n = 2) (0,10%), pancreatic heterotopia (n = 2 ) (0,10%), hyperplastic luschka ducts (n = 2) (0,10%), adenomyoma (n = 2) (0,10%), porcelain calcification (n = 2) (0,10%) and biliary-type adenocarcinoma (n = 9) (0,46%). xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis: a premalignant condition? xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis (xgc) is an uncommon variant of chronic cholecystitis, characterized by marked thickening of the gallbladder wall and dense local adhesions. the expression of p53, pcna and beta-catenin in xgc was significantly different from gbc and similar to chronic cholecystitis, thus indicating the inflammatory nature of xgc and may not support a premalignant nature of the lesion. genetic analysis of xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis: precancerous lesion of gallbladder cancer? xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis is a chronic inflammatory disease of the gallbladder, a variant of the chronic cholecystitis. as xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis is occasionally seen with carcinoma of the gallbladder, the association with cancer is a controversial issue. a focal type of xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis is found simultaneously with gastric cancer diagnosed preoperatively. etiopathologic factors of xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis might have relation with cancer, but xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis itself may not be the direct cause for cancer. acute and xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis, adenomyomatosis, pseudopyloric and intestinal metaplasia, hyperplastic polyps, low and high grade dysplasia, tubular adenomas, carcinoma in situ and invasive carcinoma were more frequent when cholelithiasis was present (p < .05) than in cases without lithiasis.
Does TDP-43 type confer a distinct pattern of atrophy in frontotemporal lobar degeneration? [SEP] 
Diagnostic characteristics of child bipolar I disorder: does the "Treatment of Early Age Mania (team)" sample generalize? [SEP] diagnostic characteristics of child bipolar i disorder: does the "treatment of early age mania (team)" sample generalize? to examine the representativeness of a randomized controlled trial (rct) sample versus one obtained by consecutive new case ascertainment, for subjects with child bipolar i disorder. subjects (n = 247) were outpatients who participated in either the national institute of mental health-funded phenomenology and course of pediatric bipolar disorders study or the treatment of early age mania (team) study. both studies required that subjects have current dsm-iv bipolar i disorder (manic or mixed phase) and a children's global assessment scale (cgas) score <or=60. subjects in the phenomenology study were obtained from 1995 to 1998 by consecutive new case ascertainment from designated pediatric and psychiatric facilities. subjects in the team rct were recruited from media and community sources between march 2003 and march 2005. assessment instruments included the washington university in st. louis kiddie schedule for affective disorders and schizophrenia, given separately to parents about their children and to children about themselves, and the cgas. many mania symptoms and ultradian rapid cycling, psychosis, and suicidality were significantly more prevalent in the rct sample. nevertheless, because the rct subjects were more severely ill, it is unclear if treatment findings from the rct will be applicable to children with less severe mania. clinicaltrials.gov identifier nct00057681 (team study).
Estimation of basal metabolic rate in Chinese: are the current prediction equations applicable? [SEP] estimation of basal metabolic rate in chinese: are the current prediction equations applicable? measurement of basal metabolic rate (bmr) is suggested as a tool to estimate energy requirements. the aim of this study was to develop a new bmr prediction equation for chinese adults applicable for a large bmi range and compare it with commonly used prediction equations. height, weight, and bmr were measured. a regression equation was derived using stepwise regression and accuracy was compared to 6 existing equations (harris-benedict, henry, liu, yang, owen and mifflin). additionally, the newly derived equation was cross-validated in a separate group of 70 chinese subjects (26 men and 44 women, age: 21-69 years, bmi: 17-39 kg/m(2)). the equation developed from our data was: bmr (kj/d) = 52.6 x weight (kg) + 828 x gender + 1960 (women = 0, men = 1; r(2) = 0.81). the accuracy rate (within 10 % accurate) was 78 % which compared well to owen (70 %), henry (67 %), mifflin (67 %), liu (58 %), harris-benedict (45 %) and yang (37 %) for the whole range of bmi. for a bmi greater than 23, the singapore equation reached an accuracy rate of 76 %. to date, the newly developed singapore equation is the most accurate bmr prediction equation in chinese and is applicable for use in a large bmi range including those overweight and obese.
Spinal subdural hematoma: a sequela of a ruptured intracranial aneurysm? [SEP] a ruptured posterior communicating artery aneurysm presenting as tentorial and spinal isolated subdural hemorrhage: a case report and literature review. here, we report an unusual case of a ruptured posterior communicating artery aneurysm resulting in an isolated subdural hematoma located in the tentorial and spinal canal without subarachnoid or intraparenchymal hemorrhage. our results suggest that a diagnosis of ruptured intracranial aneurysm should be considered in patients with nontraumatic subdural hematoma. lumbosacral subdural hematoma and concomitant acute lower extremity monoparesis after intracranial aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. spinal subdural hematoma (sdh) secondary to intracranial aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) occurs rarely and can cause neurologic deficits. acute spinal epidural hematoma and cranial interdural hematoma due to a rupture of a posterior communicating artery aneurysm: case report. ruptured aneurysm of the posterior communicating artery may cause cranial acute interdural hematoma with a typical subarachnoid hemorrhage clinical presentation, and it rarely can extend to spinal epidural space. migrating subdural hematoma without subarachnoid hemorrhage in the case of a patient with a ruptured aneurysm in the intrasellar anterior communicating artery. spinal subdural hematoma: a sequela of a ruptured intracranial aneurysm? a case of spinal subdural hematoma (ssdh) following subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) because of a ruptured internal carotid aneurysm is described.
Can shape analysis differentiate free-floating internal carotid artery thrombus from atherosclerotic plaque in patients evaluated with CTA for stroke or transient ischemic attack? [SEP] feasibility of doac dipstick point-of-care testing in patients with acute stroke and transient ischemic attack. aim this study aimed to test the feasibility of using the doac dipstick to detect the presence of doacs in patients with acute stroke and transient ischemic attack (tia) during the early phase of intrahospital stroke management. combined multiphase cta and ctp in assessing cerebral collateral circulation and predicting prognosis in ais/tia with symptomatic mca m1 stenosis/occlusion: a subacute, non-reperfused cohort. accurate assessment of collateral circulation is essential for individualized treatment in ischemic cerebrovascular disease. this multicenter prospective cohort study enrolled patients with acute ischemic stroke (ais) or transient ischemic attack (tia) due to symptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (sicas), presenting within 7 days of symptom onset without acute thrombolysis or thrombectomy. candidate predictors included age, vascular comorbidities, documented carotid stenosis and intracranial atherosclerosis, procedure setting (ambulatory versus inpatient/emergency), and procedural service (including vascular versus nonvascular neurosurgery and open versus interventional cardiovascular procedures). we investigated the prevalence and prognostic significance of covert macrovascular disease (cmvd) in acute ischemic stroke and transient ischemic attack (tia). age ≥70 years (adjusted hazard ratio (hr), 4.4; p<0.001), new-onset af (adjusted hr, 4.0; p<0.001) and nyha class (adjusted hr: 2.0, p=0.02) were identified by fine-gray regression as independent determinants of stroke/tia. abo blood group and cerebrovascular complications after carotid angiography and stenting: a natural thrombotic marker? cerebrovascular complications were defined as in-hospital amaurosis fugax, transient ischemic attack (tia), or stroke occurring after carotid angiography or carotid artery stenting (cas).
Dementia and aphasia in motor neuron disease: an underrecognised association? [SEP] dementia and aphasia in motor neuron disease: an underrecognised association? to determine the prevalence and nature of global cognitive dysfunction and language deficits in an unselected population based cohort of patients with motor neuron disease (mnd). a battery of neuropsychological and language tests was administered to patients presenting consecutively over a 3 year period to a regional neurology service with a new diagnosis of sporadic motor neuron disease. the 18 patients could be divided on the basis of their performance into three groups: three patients were demented and had impaired language function (group 1); two non-demented patients had an aphasic syndrome characterised by word finding difficulties and anomia (group 2). major cognitive deficits were therefore found in five of the 18 patients (28%). the remaining 13 performed normally on the test battery apart from decreased verbal fluency (group 3). the prevalence of cognitive impairment in mnd in this population based study of an unselected cohort was higher than has been previously reported. language deficits, especially anomia, may be relatively frequent in the mnd population. aphasia in mnd may be masked by dysarthria and missed if not specifically examined.
Diffusion-weighted echo-planar MR imaging of primary parotid gland tumors: is a prediction of different histologic subtypes possible? [SEP] diffusion-weighted echo-planar mr imaging of primary parotid gland tumors: is a prediction of different histologic subtypes possible? our aim was to determine the value of echo-planar diffusion-weighted mr imaging (epidwi) in differentiating various types of primary parotid gland tumors. one hundred forty-nine consecutive patients with suspected tumors of the parotid gland were examined with an epidwi sequence by using a 1.5t unit. for comparison of apparent diffusion coefficients (adcs), a paired 2-tailed student t test with a bonferroni correction was used. in 136 patients, a primary parotid gland tumor was confirmed by histology. adc values of warthin tumors were different from those of myoepithelial adenomas, lipomas, and salivary duct carcinomas (p < .001, 0.013, and .037, respectively). mucoepidermoid carcinomas, acinic cell carcinomas, and basal cell adenocarcinomas were not differentiable from warthin tumors (p = .094, .396, and .604, respectively). epidwi has the potential to differentiate pleomorphic adenoma and myoepithelial adenomas from all other examined entities. due to an overlap not only within the group of benign and malignant lesions but also between groups, diagnoses should not be addressed on the basis of adc values solely. therefore, further studies combining dwi, morphologic criteria, and probably other mr imaging techniques seem warranted.
Do risk factors for suicidal behavior differ by affective disorder polarity? [SEP] mood disorders (md) are closely related to suicide attempt (sa). factors associated with suicidal attempts in female patients with mood disorder. the characteristics of mood polarity, temperament, and suicide risk in adult adhd. adhd patients (compared to controls) more often reported suicidal ideation (46.0% vs. 5.9%, one-way fisher exact test suicide attempts (sa) are more frequent in bipolar disorder (bd) than in most other mental disorders. in depressive patients belonging to the bipolar spectrum, high religious involvement associated with mixed features may increase the risk of suicidal behavior, despite the existence of religious affiliation. [predominant polarity, mixed states and suicide]. bipolar disorders are linked to a high suicidal risk. many risk factors are identified but it seems relevant to highlight the relationship between suicidal behavior and the different subtypes of bipolar disorder, or the different kinds of outcomes, or the clinical characteristics of a recurrence. a high frequency of depressive episodes in the story of the illness, like in predominant depressive polarity forms, or mixed features during symptomatic recurrences seem to be linked to a higher suicidal risk in the course of the disorder.
Multidisciplinary breast cancer clinics. Do they work? [SEP] after multidisciplinary consultation, endocrine therapy and chemotherapy were administered. current guidelines recommend multidisciplinary discussion with radiologists, surgeons, and oncologists who can collaborate in the management of soft-tissue sarcomas in specialized centers. impact of internal mammary lymph node biopsy during microsurgical breast reconstruction on multidisciplinary breast cancer management decisions. opportunistic imln biopsy during autologous breast reconstruction often alters staging and treatment. multidisciplinary tumor boards (mdts) are the gold standard for cancer care but currently face significant pressure from rising case volumes and the increasing complexity of precision medicine. ebcc-15 manifesto: removing age-related barriers to improve equity in breast cancer care. integrating these recommendations into all aspects of care will allow us to offer women with breast cancer the best possible experience and outlook according to each individual's priorities, regardless of their age. comprehensive overview of management and risk assessment of breast cancer-related lymphedema: a multidisciplinary approach. concurrent breast and colon cancer: small cohort analysis. this study analyzes the clinic-pathological characteristics of female patients diagnosed with synchronous or metachronous bowel and breast cancers to highlight diagnostic challenges and management strategies.
Are there associations of health status, disease activity and damage in SLE patients? [SEP] this study aimed to retrospectively analyze the clinical and serological characteristics of sle patients based on ifn-high or ifn-low status. observational studies assessing frailty in adults with sle and reporting prevalence and/or associations with organ damage, healthcare utilization, mortality, disability, or health-related quality of life (hrqol) were included. although advances in therapy have improved survival, many people with sle continue to experience health complications and reduced quality of life.this study reviewed the scientific evidence about frailty, a condition marked by decreased strength, energy, and stress resistance, and its impact on people living with sle. patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) experience poor health-related quality of life (hrqol) that is associated with disease characteristics, comorbidities and reduced physical activity. patients with sle demonstrated significant impairment in grip strength, pinch strength and dexterity compared with healthy controls (all p < 0.05). the measurement of health outcomes in three major domains: disease activity, disease burden and quality of life, could help improve the control of the disease in patients with sle from a comprehensive perspective, as well as obtaining information on the established therapeutic objectives and therefore allowing better clinical decisions to be made. this study aimed to explore gender differences in the clinical features and patient-reported outcomes among japanese patients with sle, with particular focus on the effect of joint and cardiac damage on gender-based disparities in qol: previous studies have shown that articular and cardiac damage are associated with impaired health-related hr qol (hrqol). in this retrospective, cross-sectional multicenter cohort study, we used data from 1297 japanese patients with sle (159 males (12.3%) and 1138 females (87.7%)) enrolled in a nationwide multicenter registry (luna), and compared the clinical variables, organ damage scores (slicc/acr damage index [sdi]), and qol (assessed using the lupuspro questionnaire) between the sexes. validation of proposals for definitions of moderate and severe disease activity in sle: impact on flares, quality of life, damage accrual, hospitalisations and mortality. accurate assessment of disease activity in sle is crucial but challenging due to its varied clinical manifestations and severity.
PSA repeatedly fluctuating levels are reassuring enough to avoid biopsy? [SEP] psa repeatedly fluctuating levels are reassuring enough to avoid biopsy? prostate-specific antigen (psa) levels can show wide fluctuations when repeatedly measured. here we investigatewd if: (a) biopsy timing influences the prostate cancer (pc) detection rate in patients with fluctuating psa (flu-psa) in comparison with patients with steadily increasing psa (si-psa); (b) psa slope estimated in patients with flu-psa predicts a different risk of cancer detection; (c) flu-psa and si-psa patients develop pc in topographically different sites; (d) the behaviour of pre-operative psa is an expression of a disease with defferent characteristics to the following radical prostatectomy. the study involved 211 patients who underwent at least a second biopsy after a first negative prostate biopsy. psa slope, psa velocity (psav) and psa doubling time (psadt) were estimated. flu-psa level was defined as a psa series with at least one psa value lower than the one immediately preceding it. 82 patients had flu-psa levels and 129 si-psa levels. no difference was found for psa slope between flu-psa patients with cancer and those without. our study demonstrates no difference in pc detection rate at repeat biopsy between patients with flu or si-psa levels. psa slope, psav and psadt were not found helpful tools in cancer detection.
Is zero central line-associated bloodstream infection rate sustainable? [SEP] central line-associated bloodstream infections (clabsis) are a persistent threat to patient safety, contributing to significant morbidity, mortality, and health care costs. a quality improvement initiative to reduce central line-associated bloodstream infections in a neonatal intensive care unit in a low-and-middle-income country. premature and sick neonates in the neonatal intensive care unit (nicu) are in need of central lines placing them at high risk of contracting a central line-associated bloodstream infection (clabsi). getting to zero: impact of a device to reduce blood culture contamination and false-positive central-line-associated bloodstream infections. central line-associated bloodstream infections (clabsis) are a common, preventable healthcare-associated infection. bundle approach used to achieve zero central line-associated bloodstream infections in an adult coronary intensive care unit. at coronary icu (cicu) of cardiac hospital, central line-associated bloodstream infection (clabsi) rate was 2.82/1000 central line days in 2015 and 3.11/1000 central line days in 2016. decreasing central line associated bloodstream infection through limiting the use of central venous catheters for routine blood draws. achieving a zero central line-associated bloodstream infection rate in 4 critical care units in lebanon. every health care facility aims to achieve and maintain a zero central line-associated bloodstream infection (clabsi) rate.
Is gastric electrical stimulation superior to standard pharmacologic therapy in improving GI symptoms, healthcare resources, and long-term health care benefits? [SEP] is gastric electrical stimulation superior to standard pharmacologic therapy in improving gi symptoms, healthcare resources, and long-term health care benefits? severe upper gastrointestinal (gi) motor disorders, including gastroparesis (gp), can consume significant health care resources. to compare symptoms, healthcare resource utilization and costs in two groups of patients with the symptoms of gp: those treated via gastric electrical stimulation (ges) and those treated with traditional pharmacological agents in an intensive outpatient program (med). a long-term comparison of patients with devices (n = 9) vs intensive medical therapy (n = 9). a total of 18 eligible patients with the symptoms of gp reported for 1-year baseline and long-term treatment for 3 years. patients with the symptoms of gp were treated by a ges or intensive medical therapy (med). gastrointestinal symptoms were significantly different from baseline (f = 3.03, p < 0.017) with gp patients treated via ges showing more sustained improvement over 36 months than those treated via med. healthcare resource usage, measured via the idioms, significantly improved at 12, 24 and 36 month follow-up for ges patients (f = 10.49, p < 0.001), compared with patients receiving medical therapy, who demonstrated further deterioration. gp patients treated via ges also proved superior to medical therapy at 24 and 36 months with regard to decreased costs (f = 4.85, p < 0.001). we conclude that ges is more effective in improving long-term gi symptoms and costs, and decreasing use of healthcare resources than intensive medical therapy, in this sample of patients with the symptoms of gp followed for 3 years.
Should pulp chamber pulpotomy be seen as a permanent treatment? [SEP] for vital pulp therapy following pulp exposure, both direct pulp capping and pulpotomy are effective options in teeth without irreversible pulpitis, while pulpotomy is an acceptable alternative to pulpectomy in cases with signs of irreversible pulpitis. for deep caries, maintaining pulp vitality by using less invasive management strategies is supported by current evidence. for vital pulp therapy following pulp exposure, both direct pulp capping and pulpotomy are effective options in teeth without irreversible pulpitis, while pulpotomy is an acceptable alternative to pulpectomy in cases with signs of irreversible pulpitis. for vital pulp therapy following pulp exposure, both direct pulp capping and pulpotomy are effective options in teeth without irreversible pulpitis, while pulpotomy is an acceptable alternative to pulpectomy in cases with signs of irreversible pulpitis. this study aims to assess the effectiveness of pulpotomy in treating permanent anterior teeth with complicated crown fractures in children. effect of lateral extent of pulp tissue removal on the outcome of partial pulpotomy for managing cariously exposed mature permanent molars with symptomatic irreversible pulpitis: a randomized clinical trial. elective full pulpotomy in mature permanent teeth diagnosed with symptomatic irreversible pulpitis: a two years retrospective study. to investigate the outcome of elective full pulpotomy, using calcium silicate-based cements (csbc), after 2 years, in symptomatic mature permanent teeth with carious lesions, diagnosed as irreversible pulpitis, and analyse the capacity of wolters et al. elective full pulpotomy using a csbc was a successful choice for the treatment of mature permanent teeth with symptoms indicative of irreversible pulpitis. postoperative pain could be considered a risk marker for failure of full pulpotomy.
Does transverse apex coincide with coronal apex levels (regional or global) in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis? [SEP] does transverse apex coincide with coronal apex levels (regional or global) in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis? to identify the regional and global apexes of curves in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis and to compare the levels of those with the most rotated vertebral levels on computed tomography scans. apical vertebra or disc is defined as the most laterally deviated vertebra or disc in a scoliosis curve, but the most rotated vertebra (or disc) has not been included in this terminology. one study suggested that the most rotated vertebral level was always located at the apex. thirty-three structural curves of 25 consecutive patients scheduled for surgery for thoracic or thoracolumbar scoliosis were analyzed with standing anteroposterior radiographs and computed tomography scans covering the curve apexes and pelvis. thoracic and lumbar curves were evaluated separately for all type ii curves. the most rotated vertebral (or disc) levels (transverse apex) were compared with the regional and global apex levels (vertebra or disc) (coronal apexes) of the corresponding curves separately. regional and global apexes were at the same level in 18 (54.5%) curves, and within half a level in another 15 (45.4%), and the regional apex was one level higher in two curves (95% confidence levels: -0.82, +0.88). comparison of the most rotated levels with regional and global apex levels revealed a higher variability, extending up to two levels for the global apex (95% confidence levels: -1.19, +1.54 levels for the global and -1.0, +1.41 levels for the regional apexes). this study demonstrated that the regional or global apex of a given curve is the most rotated level in only a minority of the curves.
Does the Child Health Computing System adequately identify children with cerebral palsy? [SEP] does the child health computing system adequately identify children with cerebral palsy? this paper assesses the usefulness of the child health computing system as a source of information about children with cerebral palsy. a comparative survey of information held on the child health computing system (chcs) and the northern ireland cerebral palsy register (nicpr) in one health and social services board in northern ireland was carried out. the sample comprised children with cerebral palsy aged 5-9 years. of the 135 cases recorded on the nicpr, 47 per cent were not found on the chcs; the majority of these children had no computer record of any medical diagnosis. of the 82 cases recorded on the chcs, 10 (12 per cent) were not found on the nicpr; five of these cases (6 per cent) were found on follow-up not to have cp. unless improvements are made in case ascertainment, case validation and recording activities, the evidence suggests that the chcs will not be able to provide the same quality of information for needs assessment and surveillance of very low birthweight infants in relation to cerebral palsy as is provided by a specialist case register.
Is breast cancer prognosis inherited? [SEP] molecular and clinical characteristics of glioma patients with germline pathogenic mutations of lynch syndrome genes: a large-scale multicenter study. lynch syndrome (ls) is an inherited disorder caused by germline mutations in mismatch repair (mmr) genes or epcam deletions and is primarily associated with an increased risk of gastrointestinal and endometrial cancers. personalized medicine in triple-negative breast cancer: combining neoantigen vaccination and genomic profiling in a patient undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy. triple-negative breast cancer (tnbc) is an aggressive subtype of breast cancer with the poorest prognosis among all breast cancer subtypes. germline and somatic variants were analyzed to assess hereditary risk and actionable mutations, respectively. an intriguing journey into the hereditary syndromes predisposing to endometrial cancer: more than believed. effect of sirna-mediated lgr5 inhibition on the expression of stemness-related genes in triple-negative breast cancer spheroid model. approximately 10%-15% of all breast cancer diagnoses are identified as triple-negative breast cancer (tnbc), a subtype known for its poor prognosis due to chemoresistance.  breast carcinoma (bc) ranks as one of the most prevalent illnesses among women, and a variety of factors, including inherited and environmental factors, can impact its start and progression. triple-negative breast cancer (tnbc) is a particularly aggressive subtype of breast cancer with a high risk of relapse and metastasis.
Does nuchal translucency thickness in the first trimester predict GDM onset during pregnancy? [SEP] does nuchal translucency thickness in the first trimester predict gdm onset during pregnancy? this study was planned to evaluate whether increased nuchal translucency (nt) thickness in the first trimester of gestation can be related to onset of gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) during pregnancy. from january 2006 to august 2008, a group of 678 singleton pregnancies who had developed gdm has been selected as a study group among a total of 3966 pregnant women who had undergone first trimester screening for aneuploidies at 11-14 weeks of gestation. a group of 420 single pregnant women with physiological pregnancy were enrolled as control group. both fetal structural and karyotype's anomalies were excluded in the two groups. nt was mesured by a fetal medicine foundation certificated operator; gdm was diagnosed at 24-28 weeks of gestation following carpenter and coustan criteria. in the analyses of continuos variables, study and control group were compared by student's t-test and anova test. there was no significative difference (p = 0.585) between nt values in the study (mean = 1.56) and control group (mean = 1.54). nt thickness does not show a significative increase in those women who subsequently develop gdm. therefore, nt assessment does not prove to be an useful ultrasound parameter for predicting gdm onset during pregnancy.
Are the arginine vasopressin V1a receptor microsatellites related to hypersexuality in children with a prepubertal and early adolescent bipolar disorder phenotype? [SEP] are the arginine vasopressin v1a receptor microsatellites related to hypersexuality in children with a prepubertal and early adolescent bipolar disorder phenotype? to examine family-based transmission of the number of 5' flanking arginine vasopressin v1a receptor (avpr1a) microsatellites, which include [(gata)(14)] and complex [(ct)(4)-tt-(ct)(8)-(gt)(24)] repeats, in probands with a prepubertal and early adolescent bipolar disorder phenotype (pea-bp). preferential transmission of the number of avpr1a microsatellite repeats to hypersexual and uninhibited people-seeking probands was hypothesized, based on reports from preclinical work in the literature. the pea-bp phenotype was defined by dsm-iv mania with at least one of the cardinal symptoms of mania (elation and/or grandiosity) to avoid diagnosing mania only by symptoms that overlapped with those for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd). comprehensive assessment of the probands included separate washington university in st. louis kiddie schedule for affective disorders and schizophrenia (wash-u-ksads) interviews of parents about their children and of children about themselves. hypersexuality and uninhibited people-seeking were assessed from the corresponding wash-u-ksads items. microsatellite genotyping of the avpr1a repeats was conducted using fluorescently labeled primers and detected by laser-induced fluorescence. preferential transmission of avpr1a gata or complex repeats was not significant for hypersexuality or uninhibited people-seeking, using the transmission disequilibrium test. similarly, case-control analyses found no significant associations between hypersexuality or uninhibited people-seeking and the number of avpr1a gata or complex repeats. preferential transmission of avpr1a to hypersexual or uninhibited people-seeking probands was not supported.
Stage I non-small cell lung carcinoma: really an early stage? [SEP] 
Does Residency Selection Criteria Predict Performance in Orthopaedic Surgery Residency? [SEP] health and socioeconomic risk factors for unplanned hospitalization following ambulatory unicompartmental knee arthroplasty: development of a patient selection tool using machine learning. identifying ambulatory surgical candidates at risk for adverse surgical outcomes can optimize outcomes. the variables determined most important by the ensemble model were cumulative time in the operating room, utilization of general anesthesia, increasing age, and patient residency in more urban areas. innovation in resident selection: life without step 1. the announcement of step 1 shifting to a pass/fail metric has prompted resident selection committees (rscs) to pursue objective methods of evaluating prospective residents. the authors found personality traits, situational judgement testing, and specialty specific assessments to be predictive in selecting successful residents. development and validation of a machine learning-based decision support tool for residency applicant screening and review. categorical applicant data from the 2018, 2019, and 2020 residency application cycles (n = 8,243 applicants) at one large internal medicine residency program were downloaded from the electronic residency application service and linked to the outcome measure: interview invitation by human reviewers (n = 1,235 invites). applicants' medical school information was an important driver of predictions-which had face validity based on the local selection process-but numerous predictors contributed. the authors developed and validated an ml algorithm for predicting residency interview offers from numerous application elements with high performance-even when usmle scores were removed.
Optimism and survival: does an optimistic outlook predict better survival at advanced ages? [SEP] optimism and survival: does an optimistic outlook predict better survival at advanced ages? studies examining predictors of survival among the oldest-old have primarily focused on objective measures, such as physical function and health status. only a few studies have examined the effect of personality traits on survival, such as optimism. the aim of this study was to examine whether an optimistic outlook predicts survival among the oldest-old. the baseline in-person interview consisted of a comprehensive questionnaire including physical functioning and health, and a question about whether the respondent had an optimistic, neutral or pessimistic outlook on his or her own future. univariable analyses revealed that optimistic women and men were at lower risk of death compared to their neutral counterparts [hr 0.82, 95 % ci (0.73-0.93) and 0.81, 95 % ci (0.66-0.99), respectively]. when confounding factors such as baseline physical and cognitive functioning and disease were taken into account the association between optimism and survival weakened in both sexes, but the general pattern persisted. optimistic women were still at lower risk of death compared to neutral women [hr 0.85, 95 % ci (0.74-0.97)]. the risk of death was also decreased for optimistic men compared to their neutral counterparts, but the effect was non-significant [hr 0.91, 95 % ci (0.73-1.13)]. an optimistic outlook appears to be a significant predictor of survival among the oldest-old women.
Is it better to be big? [SEP] perfectionistic strivings and perfectionistic concerns were measured with the big three perfectionism scale. in the control condition, higher perfectionistic concerns significantly predicted reduced retention of movement efficiency, though completion time was unaffected. macrogenetic alignment in ecological strategies better interprets assembly processes than pre-determined functional groupings. surgery is an important part of treatment, and can have a big impact on a person’s ability to move and perform daily activities. this will help healthcare providers make more informed decisions and improve patient care. conscientiousness was positively associated with interest and enjoyment, effort and importance, and perceived competence, while openness was negatively associated with perceived tension. qualitative findings supported these patterns: students with higher extraversion expressed a preference for greater in-person interaction, whereas conscientious and open students valued structure, autonomy, and self-paced learning. determinants of self-management in multiple sclerosis: insights from a tunisian cross-sectional study. the type of disease-modifying therapy may affect self-management abilities, potentially by shaping patients' perception of their illness.psychological well-being and personality traits represent important targets for interventions aimed at improving ms self-management. better results were seen in private centers; big public centers treated higher complexity.
Is arch form influenced by sagittal molar relationship or Bolton tooth-size discrepancy? [SEP] applicability of bolton's analysis and regression-based tooth-size prediction methods in a young adult cohort. actual tooth dimensions were compared with values predicted using bolton's anterior ratio, tonn's formula, and abhi's formula. simplified formula versus standard bolton's analysis in the analysis of tooth size discrepancies among different malocclusion groups during orthodontic treatment planning: establishing the new norms. the aim of the present study was to compare the standard bolton's analysis with the simplified analysis to evaluate tooth size discrepancies in the different malocclusion groups during orthodontic treatment planning. for the present study, 120 pretreatment orthodontic study models for subjects within an age group of 13-25 years were used, while the study models of each subject were measured at the largest mesio-distal dimension using a digital  the findings of the present study revealed no statistically significant differences between the standard bolton's analysis and simplified formula 1 and 2 in terms of the anterior and overall ratios ( based on the results obtained, it can be concluded that both simplified formula 1 and 2 can be recommended to be used as reliable alternatives to the standard bolton's analysis in the assessment of tooth size discrepancies among different malocclusion groups for planning orthodontic treatment. to compare overall and anterior bolton ratio in different malocclusion groups in indian population with bolton standards. anterior and overall bolton's ratio was measured in different malocclusion groups, and the results were compared with the standard bolton values. the mean anterior bolton's ratio in the class i malocclusion group and class iii malocclusion group when compared with the standard bolton's ratio was found to be increased but the difference was found to be non-significant. in the class ii malocclusion group, a significant increase was found in the mean anterior bolton's ratio as compared to the standard bolton's ratio. on comparison of the mean overall bolton's ratio among males in the class ii malocclusion group with the standard bolton's ratio, the difference was found to be statistically significant while it was non-significant for class i and class iii patients.
Cold knife conization vs. LEEP. Are they the same procedure? [SEP] this study aimed to compare loop electrosurgical excision procedure (leep) with cold knife conization (ckc) as therapeutic management procedures for women with adenocarcinoma in situ (acis) of the cervix. of 115 conization procedures performed, 61 were leep (31 diagnostic and 30 therapeutic) and 54 were ckc (6 diagnostic and 48 therapeutic). for the 78 patients who underwent conization procedures with therapeutic intent, there were no differences in the rates of positive margins (20% vs 17%), invasive cancer (3.3% vs 4.2%), recurrence of acis (6.7% vs 8.3%), or subsequent development of invasive adenocarcinoma (0 vs 2.0%) between leep and ckc, respectively. in our study, leep was as good as ckc for the treatment of acis of the cervix, achieving the same rates of negative margins, diagnosis of invasive cancer, and recurrence of acis or invasive cancer. the benefits of leep versus ckc include the ability to perform the procedure in an outpatient clinic under local anesthesia with less morbidity. cold knife conization vs. leep. are they the same procedure? to prospectively evaluate the amount of tissue removed at loop electrosurgical excision procedure (leep) vs. cold knife conization. forty consecutive leep or cold knife conization specimens were prospectively measured and weighed by a single pathology technician. in a prospective evaluation, cold knife cone specimens were 50% longer and 100% heavier than leep specimens.
Are pectins involved in cold acclimation and de-acclimation of winter oil-seed rape plants? [SEP] are pectins involved in cold acclimation and de-acclimation of winter oil-seed rape plants? the hypothesis was tested that pectin content and methylation degree participate in regulation of cell wall mechanical properties and in this way may affect tissue growth and freezing resistance over the course of plant cold acclimation and de-acclimation. experiments were carried on the leaves of two double-haploid lines of winter oil-seed rape (brassica napus subsp. oleifera), differing in winter survival and resistance to blackleg fungus (leptosphaeria maculans). plant acclimation in the cold (2 degrees c) brought about retardation of leaf expansion, concomitant with development of freezing resistance. these effects were associated with the increases in leaf tensile stiffness, cell wall and pectin contents, pectin methylesterase (ec 3.1.1.11) activity and the low-methylated pectin content, independently of the genotype studied. however, the cold-induced modifications in the cell wall properties were more pronounced in the leaves of the more pathogen-resistant genotype. de-acclimation promoted leaf expansion and reversed most of the cold-induced effects, with the exception of pectin methylesterase activity. the results show that the temperature-dependent modifications in pectin content and their methyl esterification degree correlate with changes in tensile strength of a leaf tissue, and in this way affect leaf expansion ability and its resistance to freezing and to fungus pathogens.
Updating emotional content in working memory: a depression-specific deficit? [SEP] distinct effects of anxiety and depression on updating emotional information in working memory. anxiety and depression have been shown to negatively influence the processing of emotional information in working memory. we tested the effects of emotional valence on working memory performance among healthy young adults with varying levels of anxiety and depressive symptoms. these findings demonstrated the uniquely anxiety-related deficits in processing negative contents and the uniquely depression-related deficits in updating positive contents in working memory, thus highlighting the necessity of novel cognitive bias modification interventions targeting the anxiety-specific and depression-specific deficits in working memory. updating emotional content in recovered depressed individuals: evaluating deficits in emotion processing following a depressive episode. previous research has demonstrated that depressed individuals have difficulty both disengaging from negative information and maintaining positive information in working memory (wm). individuals who had recovered from a depressive episode and never disordered controls performed emotion 0-back and 2-back tasks designed to assess biases in updating emotional content in working memory. updating emotional content in working memory: a depression-specific deficit? compared to control and social anxiety groups, the depression groups (both pure and comorbid with social anxiety disorder) exhibited greater difficulties removing irrelevant emotional material from working memory (i.e., greater intrusion effects). the results indicate that difficulties removing irrelevant material from working memory might be unique to depression, and the ability to inhibit irrelevant information is relatively preserved in social anxiety disorder.
Should prostate specific antigen be adjusted for body mass index? [SEP] diagnostic value of psa-based markers in prostate cancer: a retrospective analysis stratified by body mass index. body mass index (bmi) influences the accuracy of prostate-specific antigen (psa) in prostate cancer (pca) diagnostic performance. this study investigates the effect of bmi on conventional psa-based markers and evaluates a novel age-adjusted psa density parameter (a-psad) to optimize diagnostic performance strategies across different bmi groups. bmi significantly modulates the diagnostic efficacy of pca diagnostic performance indicators. a-psad demonstrates robust, superior diagnostic value across varying bmi categories, serving as a promising primary diagnostic performance tool to optimize individualized pre-biopsy risk stratification. association between health eating index-2015 and prostate-specific antigen levels: a cross-sectional study of nhanes 2001-2004. to elaborate the effect of dietary quality on prostate-specific antigen (psa), we investigated the association between health eating index-2015 (hei-2015) and psa concentration from national health and nutrition examination survey. use of a bmi-independent biomarker-based prostate cancer risk score to identify and triage individuals at risk of prostate disease. in addition, we observed a significant negative correlation between increasing body mass index (bmi) in men with high bmi (≥ 30) and tpsa levels. trends show increasing age, charlson comorbidity index score, and body mass index at diagnosis, but decreasing prostate-specific antigen levels per year.
The effect of an intracerebroventricular injection of metformin or AICAR on the plasma concentrations of melatonin in the ewe: potential involvement of AMPK? [SEP] in this background, metformin, an insulin sensitizer's neuroprotective effectiveness, has been established in the prior findings. the above beneficial effects of metformin were blocked by the intracerebroventricular injection of the ampk inhibitor compound c (40 μg/mouse/d). however, metformin has not been previously studied in intracerebroventricular streptozocin (stz)-induced model of sad. therefore, our aim was to assess the preventive action of metformin in sad model-rats. metformin (met 50 and 100 µg) was injected i.c.v. intracerebroventricular administration of metformin inhibits ghrelin-induced hypothalamic amp-kinase signalling and food intake. the present study investigated the effects of intracerebroventricular administration of metformin on food intake and hypothalamic appetite-regulating signalling pathways induced by the orexigenic peptide ghrelin. rats were injected intracerebroventricularly with ghrelin (5 µg), metformin (50, 100 or 200 µg), 5-amino-imidazole-4-carboxamide 1-β-d-ribofuranoside (aicar, 25 µg) and l-leucine (1 µg) in different combinations. metformin treatment blocked ghrelin-induced activation of hypothalamic ampk/acc/raptor and restored mtor activity without affecting s6k phosphorylation. metformin could reduce food intake by preventing ghrelin-induced ampk signalling and mtor inhibition in the hypotalamus.
Literacy after cerebral hemispherectomy: Can the isolated right hemisphere read? [SEP] literacy after cerebral hemispherectomy: can the isolated right hemisphere read? cerebral hemispherectomy, a surgical procedure undergone to control intractable seizures, is becoming a standard procedure with more cases identified and treated early in life [33]. while the effect of the dominant hemisphere resection on spoken language has been extensively researched, little is known about reading abilities in individuals after left-sided resection. here, we explored the reading skills in participants who have undergone left cerebral hemispherectomy. seven individuals who have undergone left cerebral hemispherectomy to control intractable seizures associated with perinatal infarct have been recruited for this study. we examined if components of phonological processing that are shown to reliably separate average readers from struggling readers, i.e., phonological awareness, verbal memory, speed of retrieval, and size of vocabulary, show the same relationship to reading levels when they are mediated by the right hemisphere [2]. receptive vocabulary, a bilateral function, was preserved to a certain degree similar to that of strongly left-lateralized phonological skills [3]. later seizure onset was associated with better reading levels. when cerebral hemispherectomy is performed to control seizures associated with very early (in utero) insult, it has been found that the remaining right hemisphere is still able to support reading and phonological processing skills that are normally mediated by the left hemisphere. our results also suggest the existence of variability in individuals after hemispherectomy, even within groups having the same etiology and similar timing of insult.
Characterization of the gender dimorphism after injury and hemorrhagic shock: are hormonal differences responsible? [SEP] characterization of the gender dimorphism after injury and hemorrhagic shock: are hormonal differences responsible? to characterize the gender dimorphism after injury with specific reference to the reproductive age of the women (young, <48 yrs of age, vs. old, >52 yrs of age) in a cohort of severely injured trauma patients for which significant variation in postinjury care is minimized. blunt-injured adults with hemorrhagic shock. separate cox proportional hazard regression models were formulated based on all patients to evaluate the effects of gender on mortality, multiple organ failure, and nosocomial infection, after controlling for all important confounders. these models were then used to characterize the effect of gender in young and old age groups. men (n = 680) and women (n = 356) were clinically similar except that men required higher crystalloid volumes, more often had a history of alcoholism and liver disease, and had greater ventilatory and intensive care unit requirements. female gender was independently associated with a 43% and 23% lower risk of multiple organ failure and nosocomial infection, respectively. gender remained an independent risk factor in young and old subgroup analysis, with the protection afforded by female gender remaining unchanged. the independent protective effect of female gender on multiple organ failure and nosocomial infection rates remains significant in both premenopausal and postmenopausal women when compared with similarly aged men. these results suggest that factors other than sex hormones may be responsible for gender-based differences after injury.
Can communication with terminally ill patients be taught? [SEP] knowledge concerning drugs and services can be readily taught, and skills of communicating with terminally ill patients and their families are increasingly being addressed. self-estimation of competence in communication with dying patients and their relatives increased from 12.00 to 23.60 (p = .001). residents felt conversations with dying patients, and more broadly the art of soliciting a patient's story are poorly taught and modeled. palliative care teaching in germany - concepts and future developments. [hospice palliative care education for nursing students, nurses, and advanced nursing practitioners]. working together with patients and their families, nurses can educate and care for the physical, social and spiritual needs of terminally ill patients. [can communication with terminally ill patients be taught? communication with terminally ill patients is a main responsibility of physicians. communication with terminally ill patients can be taught. these principles actually transcend patient age and can be used to inform medical education about the care of any terminally ill patient.
Delays in time to primary treatment after a diagnosis of breast cancer: does it impact survival? [SEP] this study aimed to model the impact of a hypothetical three- and six-month delay in tti on stage of breast cancer and non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) in ireland. delays in diagnosis are likely to have adverse consequences on cancer stage, treatment initiation, mortality rates, and years of life lost. clinical impact of delaying initiation of adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with early triple negative breast cancer. therefore, public health policies are urgently needed to decrease the incidence of advanced cervical and breast cancers caused by delayed diagnosis and treatment initiation.the covid-19 control policies resulted in reduction of cancer patients' delivery of care. factors associated with breast cancer surgery delay within a coordinated multihospital community health system: when does surgical delay impact outcome? multiple factors influence the time elapsed between diagnosis of breast cancer and surgical extirpation of the primary tumor. the disease-free interval between resection of primary breast cancer and first evidence of recurrence is predictive of mortality. cancer registry and electronic medical record data for patients with breast cancer who underwent surgery as first course of treatment during 2006-2016 were retrospectively reviewed. kaplan-meier survival analyses with cox proportional hazards were performed to evaluate impact of time from breast cancer diagnosis to definitive therapeutic surgery on breast cancer recurrence or death (all-cause). impact of timing of adjuvant chemothapy for early breast cancer: the royal marsden hospital experience.
Are increased carotid artery pulsatility and resistance indexes early signs of vascular abnormalities in young obese males? [SEP] 
Are acceptance rates of a national preventive home visit programme for older people socially imbalanced? [SEP] are acceptance rates of a national preventive home visit programme for older people socially imbalanced? : a cross sectional study in denmark. preventive home visits are offered to community dwelling older people in denmark aimed at maintaining their functional ability for as long as possible, but only two thirds of older people accept the offer from the municipalities. the purpose of this study is to investigate 1) whether socioeconomic status was associated with acceptance of preventive home visits among older people and 2) whether municipality invitational procedures for the preventive home visits modified the association. the study population included 1,023 community dwelling 80-year-old individuals from the danish intervention study on preventive home visits. information on preventive home visit acceptance rates was obtained from questionnaires. older persons with high financial assets accepted preventive home visits more frequently than persons with low assets (adjusted or = 1.5 (ci95%: 1.1-2.0)). the odds ratio for accepting preventive home visits was larger among persons with low financial assets invited by a letter with a proposed date than among persons with high financial assets invited by other procedures, though these estimates had wide confidence intervals. high socioeconomic status was associated with a higher acceptance rate of preventive home visits, but the association was attenuated by invitational procedures. the results indicate that the social inequality in acceptance of publicly offered preventive services might decrease if municipalities adopt more proactive invitational procedures.
Does open access publishing increase the impact of scientific articles? [SEP] the open versus closed access publication advantage in orthopaedic surgery. as scientific publishing has shifted to digital platforms, two primary article-publishing modalities have emerged: open access and closed access. the study hypothesis was that open access publications would have higher attention and readership, whereas closed access articles would yield more citations. open access articles had significantly higher altmetric attention scores (44.1 ± 197 vs 17.2 ± 52.0), x mentions (32.2 ± 27.1 vs 17.4 ± 38.4), facebook mentions (1.2 ± 4.3 vs 1 ± 2.5), news mentions (4.1 ± 25.2 vs 1.0 ± 7.2), number of mendeley readers (136.6 ± 127.9 vs 113.4 ± 108), and, notably, number of dimensions citations (36.8 ± 88.9 vs 30.1 ± 45.6) compared with closed access articles ( p < 0.05). contrary to our initial hypothesis, open access articles had higher attention metrics and citation numbers when compared with closed access publications. these findings suggest that open access publishing not only enhances visibility and engagement but also may increase academic impact across multiple orthopaedic subspecialties. is it worth publishing open access? - the scientific impact of open access publications in the field of medical education. authorship, titles and open access as drivers of citation performance in orthopaedics: a scientometric analysis. beyond the inherent quality of a study, elements such as authorship patterns, title construction, and open access (oa) availability may play an essential role in shaping citation performance.
In vivo visualization of pyloric mucosal hypertrophy in infants with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis: is there an etiologic role? [SEP] in vivo visualization of pyloric mucosal hypertrophy in infants with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis: is there an etiologic role? infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis (ihps) is a common condition which presents in infants at 2-12 weeks of postnatal life, and whose cause remains obscure. multiple associated abnormalities have been recognized within the external hypertrophied pyloric muscle layer, but the internal component of the pyloric mucosa has received scant attention in the literature to date. our purpose in this study was to show that pyloric mucosal redundancy is a constant finding in infants with ihps, to discuss its possible cause, and to explore the hypothesis of a relationship between pyloric mucosal redundancy and the development of ihps. we identified 102 consecutive infants with surgically confirmed ihps and determined the thickness of the pyloric mucosa compared with the thickness of the surrounding hypertrophied muscle. fifty-one infants who did not have pyloric stenosis served as controls. mean mucosal thickness in patients with ihps approximated mean muscle thickness, with a ratio of 0.89. in infants with ihps, the pyloric mucosa constitutes approximately one third of the cross-sectional diameter of the pyloric mass and fills and obstructs the pyloric canal. mucosal redundancy is a constant associated finding in ihps. although the origin of the redundancy and a cause-and-effect relationship are difficult to establish, our findings support the hypothesis that hypergastrinemia may be implicated in the pathogenesis of ihps, and suggest that mucosal thickening could be implicated as one of the initiating factors in its development.
Does the early adopter of drugs exist? [SEP] recognising intoxication in healthcare: evidence, challenges, and implications. this narrative review synthesises the literature on clinician recognition of alcohol and other drug intoxication to identify challenges that contribute to misclassification, and potential solutions to identifying intoxication in healthcare settings. this review integrates findings across alcohol and other drug classes, identifies common sources of perceptual and decision error, and outlines the implications of misclassification for patient safety, informed consent, diagnostic accuracy, and service utilisation. since 1995, only 3 drugs riluzole, edaravone, and tofersen have gained approval from the food and drug administration, all offering modest benefits. pharmacology plays an important role in understanding the use of palliative care medicines. most of the drugs prescribed in palliative care are usually covered in pharmacology textbooks, but in a "piecemeal." however, an explicit chapter on palliative care with the relevant pharmacology helps the young medicos to get sensitized to the drugs and acquire the requisite prescription skills early on the same go. here, in a fresh perspective, through this fact-based analysis we looked at competitive position of 'pharmacology' discipline to provide the early exposure of 'palliative care' to the mbbs students through a new chapter. early ai-driven repurposing study of existing drugs towards the vasopressin v2 receptor. examples are early detection of
Does high blood pressure reduce the risk of chronic low back pain? [SEP] the highest adjusted odds ratios (ors) were observed for chronic pain and psychiatric diseases (ors for low back pain 2.67, fibromyalgia 2.42, endometriosis 1.86, anxiety 2.02, and depression 1.81). effects of pain management on work ability in aging workers with chronic musculoskeletal pain: a cross-sectional study. with increasing life expectancy and an aging population, societies worldwide are experiencing a growing workforce affected by chronic musculoskeletal pain (msp). this cross-sectional study aimed to examine the association between pain-management strategies and work ability among aging workers with msp. pain severity, interference, and chronic conditions (hypertension, dyslipidemia, knee pain, and low back pain) were key risk factors for decreased work ability. low back pain was the leading cause of ylds in the usa in 1990 and 2021, although the age-standardised rate declined by 7·9% (1·8-13·0) from 1990. chronic low back pain and sleep disturbance in adults in the us: the nhanes 2009-2010 study. chronic low back pain (clbp) is a significant health challenge with a high prevalence rate. [the assessment of the clinical efficacy and tolerability of complex treatment of patients with acute low-back pain]. ninety patients with acute low-back pain (icd-10 m54.5) were studied.
Nasal fractures:  is closed reduction satisfying? [SEP] managing comminuted and complicated nasal fractures is challenging because it requires obtaining both functional and cosmetic satisfaction.this research examines patient satisfaction with the closed reduction strategy paired with the use of sj tripod suspension and splintage technique for severe nasal fractures. assessment of satisfaction rate after closed reductions of nasal bone fractures: a cross-sectional study. treatment for nasal bone fractures involves open reduction and closed reduction. the most common method for treating nasal bone fracture is closed reduction, which is performed inside the nasal cavity without an incision. closed reduction of the fracture under general or local anesthesia with elevators or forceps is widely used to treat nasal bone fractures. septal fractures predict poor outcomes after closed nasal reduction: retrospective review and survey. to determine outcomes of patients with displaced nasal bone fractures after closed nasal reduction (cnr). convex bone deformity after closed reduction of nasal bone fracture. nasal fractures in children and adolescents: mechanisms of injury and efficacy of closed reduction. to examine the efficacy of closed reduction of nasal fractures in children and adolescents based on the parents' and surgeons' ratings of post-reduction nasal symmetry.
Do improvements in outreach, clinical, and family and community-based services predict improvements in child survival? [SEP] do improvements in outreach, clinical, and family and community-based services predict improvements in child survival? there are three main service delivery channels: clinical services, outreach, and family and community. to determine which delivery channels are associated with the greatest reductions in under-5 mortality rates (u5mr), we used data from sequential population-based surveys to examine the correlation between changes in coverage of clinical, outreach, and family and community services and in u5mr for 27 high-burden countries. average annual changes (aac) between the most recent and penultimate survey were calculated for under-five mortality rates and for 22 variables in the domains of clinical, outreach, and family- and community-based services. for all 27 countries and a subset of 19 african countries, we conducted principal component analysis to reduce the variables into a few components in each domain and applied linear regression to assess the correlation between changes in the principal components and changes in under-five mortality rates after controlling for multiple potential confounding factors. the strongest correlation with reductions in u5mr was observed for access to clinical services (all countries: p = 0.02, r² = 0.58; 19 african countries p < 0.001, r² = 0.67). for outreach activities, aac u5mr was significantly correlated with antenatal care and family planning services, while aac in immunization services showed no association. in the family- and community services domain, improvements in breastfeeding were associated with significant changes in mortality in the 30 countries but not in the african subset; while in the african countries, nutritional status improvements were associated with a significant decline in mortality. our findings support the importance of increasing access to clinical services, certain outreach services and breastfeeding and, in africa, of improving nutritional status. integrated programs that emphasize these services may lead to substantial mortality declines.
Does spontaneous remission occur in polyarteritis nodosa? [SEP] does spontaneous remission occur in polyarteritis nodosa? . polyarteritis nodosa (pan) is a systemic vasculitis involving mainly medium-sized arteries and, rarely, small-sized arteries. whether spontaneous remission of pan occurs is therefore largely unknown. a possible diagnosis of pan was considered; however, within 2 weeks of admission, spontaneous remission of her clinical and biological symptoms occurred without the use of any immunosuppressive treatment. this case illustrates the importance of considering pan in the differential diagnosis of renal infarction with inflammatory syndrome and shows that spontaneous remission of renal pan can occur. pan, wg, churg-strauss syndrome (css) or microscopic polyangiitis (mpa), followed over the past 15 years at four french centres. it manifests as nodules or pain in the breast, with or without tenderness, and is associated with significant constitutional symptoms that resemble those of polymyalgia rheumatica (pmr). considering this and the fact that spontaneous remission may occur in some cases, mammary gca probably often goes undiagnosed or may be misdiagnosed as an ordinary mammary disease. cyclophosphamide therapy of severe systemic necrotizing vasculitis. complete and often dramatic remissions occurred in the surviving 14 patients, who were then placed on alternate-day corticosteroid treatment with continuation of cyclophosphamide.
Do symptoms predict COPD in smokers? [SEP] a multifactorial model for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease risk in smokers with positive bronchodilation: a retrospective cohort study. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) remains underdiagnosed in smoking populations, as conventional risk stratification relies heavily on spirometry and fails to integrate dynamic imaging markers and type 2 inflammation biomarkers. to develop and validate a multifactorial prediction model integrating bronchodilator responsiveness, clinical features, imaging markers, and inflammatory biomarkers to identify, among smokers already undergoing routine spirometric assessment, those at highest risk for underdiagnosed or potentially progressive copd. in this retrospective cohort study, 440 smokers treated between august 2015 and october 2024 were stratified into bronchodilator test-positive and test-negative groups ( positive bronchodilator test, age, smoking index, chronic bronchitis/emphysema, airway wall thickening, and elevated eosinophil counts were significantly associated with copd. a positive bronchodilator test, when combined with a panel of clinical and inflammatory markers, constitutes a valuable multidimensional indicator for stratifying copd risk among smokers, beyond what is captured by baseline spirometry alone. current guideline-based diagnosis of airflow limitation in copd focuses on spirometry, which is insensitive to early small airway changes of symptomatic smokers or subjects at risk. patients with mild copd (post-bronchodilator forced expiratory volume in 1 s (fev we present cross-sectional baseline data from 90 copd patients (mean±sd age 65±9 years; mean±sd fev sad is common even in symptomatic (ex-)smokers not fulfilling spirometric criteria with a similar frequency and pattern as compared to mild copd patients. multiple regression analysis was used to identify questionnaire items associated with fev four variables-age, smoking intensity, exertional dyspnea, and paroxysmal dyspnea-were independently associated with fev we developed a simple questionnaire-based model to estimate fev chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) is an important respiratory disease, but the need for spirometry for diagnosis makes early diagnosis difficult in primary care settings. we found statistically significant differences in four parameters: age, smoking index, exertional breathlessness, and paroxysmal breathlessness in copd patients compared with non-copd patients. we compared the prevalence and impact of these comorbidities in tobacco-smoke-related copd (s-copd) and non-tobacco-smoke-related copd (ns-copd).
Search engine as a diagnostic tool in difficult immunological and allergologic cases: is Google useful? [SEP] search engine as a diagnostic tool in difficult immunological and allergologic cases: is google useful? web search engines are an important tool in communication and diffusion of knowledge. among these, google appears to be the most popular one: in august 2008, it accounted for 87% of all web searches in the uk, compared with yahoo's 3.3%. google's value as a diagnostic guide in general medicine was recently reported. the aim of this comparative cross-sectional study was to evaluate whether searching google with disease-related terms was effective in the identification and diagnosis of complex immunological and allergic cases. investigator a was a consultant with an expert knowledge in internal medicine and allergy (im&a) and basic computing skills. both investigators b and c were familiar with computers and search engines. for every clinical case presented, each investigator independently carried out an internet search using google to provide a final diagnosis. this google-based search was useful to identify an appropriate diagnosis in complex immunological and allergic cases. computing skills may help to get better results.
Uniformity of evidence-based treatments in practice? [SEP] in the uae, where prevalence remains moderate but clinically significant, evaluating adherence to evidence-based standards is critical. this document is expected to standardize the practice of luminal gastroenterology by providing a ready reference for budding specialists and pathologists, thereby promoting uniformity in practice. these multi-society, evidence-based and practically applicable recommendations developed by core subject experts aim to promote uniformity and confidence in pathology reports, facilitate timely patient management and prevent complications arising from erroneous treatment. this scoping review aimed to evaluate whether aesthetic surgery is meeting the current scientific standard by analyzing the scientific rigor and uniformity of outcomes reported in facelift research. broader use of validated instruments and standardized reporting would improve comparability across techniques and strengthen evidence-based aesthetic facial surgical interventions. level of evidence: 3 (therapeutic). these comprised a mixture of clinical guidelines, systematic reviews, and observational studies, highlighting the heterogeneity of follow-up schedules, imaging-based approaches, and patient risk stratification. knowledge, attitudes and behaviours of evidence-informed practice in respiratory therapy: a cross-sectional survey. using evidence to guide clinical practice is recognized as the cornerstone of safe, effective, and patient-centred care and is embedded within the national competency framework of respiratory therapists (rts) as evidence-informed practice (eip). management support, reflexivity and a clear vision are required to strengthen methodical working and collaboration between wards to create uniformity of practice.
Do approved doctors and medical referees in the UK agree when assessing a seafarer's fitness? [SEP] do approved doctors and medical referees in the uk agree when assessing a seafarer's fitness? the seafaring industry remains a hazardous occupation that requires sophisticated systems of risk and fitness assessment. this study aims to investigate the extent of agreement between approved doctors (ads) and medical referees (mrs) when they assess a seafarer's fitness. between 2003 and 2009 a total of 232,878 seafarer medical examinations were carried out by ads, of which 465 were considered by the mrs because the seafarer appealed against the ad's decision. agreement between uk maritime coastguard agency medical referees. the seafaring industry remains a hazardous occupation that requires sophisticated systems of risk and fitness assessment. to study the extent of agreement between the medical referees (mrs) and the determinants of agreement between the mrs. a total of 232,878 seafarer medical examinations were carried out by approved doctors (ads) between 2003 and 2009. the mrs upgraded the seafarer's fitness category in 58% (271) of cases, upheld the initial ad's decision in 40% (184) and downgraded the seafarer's fitness category in only 2% (10) of cases. there was no statistically significant difference between the mrs when they assessed the fitness of seafarers. mrs seemed to agree with each other as they upgraded the fitness category of seafarers to allow more of them to work at sea.
Hepatorenal syndrome: are we missing some prognostic factors? [SEP] hepatic encephalopathy is a debilitating and resource-intensive complication of cirrhosis, with high prevalence, frequent hospitalizations, and poor prognosis. the presence of ascites (adjusted relative risk: 4.8), gastroesophageal varices (3.6), peritonitis (2.2), hepatorenal syndrome (2.1), gastroesophageal variceal hemorrhage (1.9) and hepatocellular carcinoma (1.5) is related with subsequent hepatic encephalopathy; all p < 0.05. markers of cell death predict therapy response in patients with cirrhosis and hepatorenal syndrome. hepatorenal syndrome is a major complication in patients with cirrhosis and associated with high mortality. cell death parameters might possess clinical relevance in patients with liver cirrhosis and hrs. hepatorenal syndrome: are we missing some prognostic factors? hepatorenal syndrome (hrs) is the functional renal failure associated with advanced cirrhosis and has also been described in fulminant hepatic failure. survival of hrs associated with alcoholic liver disease versus other etiologies was not statistically significant (p = 0.1). [complications of liver cirrhosis: portal hypertension, gastroesophageal varices and ascites]. hepatorenal syndrome, a typical complication of advanced cirrhosis is especially difficult to treat and is considered an indication for liver transplantation.
Prescriptions as a proxy for asthma in children: a good choice? [SEP] prescriptions as a proxy for asthma in children: a good choice? (eur respir j 25:47-53, 2005) recently estimated asthma prevalence in germany using claims data on prescriptions and hospital diagnoses and found high prevalence peaks in infants. our objective was to critically assess and discuss various aspects of identifying children with asthma using prescription data. using data on 290,919 children aged 0-17 years insured in the gmünder ersatzkasse (gek) in 2005. asthma prevalence was also estimated in a sample of 17,641 children aged 0-17 years participating in the german health interview and examination survey for children and adolescents (kiggs) from 2003 to 2006. in children aged 0-4 years insured in the gek, prevalences were found to range from 11.7 to 17.7% for boys and from 7.2 to 11.1% for girls when the criteria of stock et al. asthma prevalence estimated in the kiggs data showed a quite different distribution. when additional validation studies were taken into account, asthma medications were found to be prescribed not only for asthma but also for other respiratory diseases. in addition, not all children with current asthma had prescriptions. we therefore conclude that asthma medications are therefore not a good proxy for the disease.
Proof of concept study: does fenofibrate have a role in sleep apnoea syndrome? [SEP] proof of concept study: does fenofibrate have a role in sleep apnoea syndrome? to investigate the effect of fenofibrate on sleep apnoea indices. thirty-four subjects (mean age 55 years, body mass index 34 kg/m 2 , fasting triglycerides 3.5 mmol/l) with diagnosed sleep apnoea syndrome not treated with continuous positive airways pressure were enrolled and randomized to once daily treatment with fenofibrate (145 mg nanocrystal(r) tablet) or placebo. as this was an exploratory study, a range of sleep variables were evaluated. other variables included total apnoeas, hypopnoeas and oxygen desaturations, and non-cortical micro-awakenings related to respiratory events per hour. fenofibrate treatment significantly reduced the percentage of time with spo(2) <90% (from 9.0% to 3.5% vs. 10.0% to 11.5% with placebo, p = 0.007), although there was no significant change in the ahi (reduction vs. control 14% (95%ci -47 to 40%, p = 0.533). treatment reduced obstructive apnoeas (by 44%, from 18.5 at baseline to 15.0 at end of treatment vs. 29.0 to 30.5 on placebo, p = 0.048), and non-cortical micro-awakenings per hour (from 23.5 to 18.0 vs. 24.0 to 25.0 with placebo, p = 0.004). other sleep variables were not significantly influenced by fenofibrate. exploratory study in patients with mild to moderate sleep apnoea, limited treatment duration; concomitant hypnotic treatment (35%); lack of correction for multiplicity of testing. the consistent direction of change in sleep indices in this proof-of-concept study may support further investigation of fenofibrate in moderate to severe sleep apnoea syndrome.
Can mental imagery functional magnetic resonance imaging predict recovery in patients with disorders of consciousness? [SEP] can mental imagery functional magnetic resonance imaging predict recovery in patients with disorders of consciousness? to determine the potential prognostic value of using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fmri) to identify patients with disorders of consciousness, who show potential for recovery. further course on the coma recovery scale-revised. participants performed a mental imagery fmri paradigm. in 14 of the 22 examined patients (vs, n=5; mcs, n=9), a significant activation of the regions of interest (rois) of the mental imagery paradigm could be found. we therefore propose the term "functional minimally conscious state" for these patients. reaching across the abyss: recent advances in functional magnetic resonance imaging and their potential relevance to disorders of consciousness. disorders of consciousness (doc) raise profound scientific, clinical, ethical, and philosophical issues. we here discuss new perspectives derived from a recently proposed scheme of brain organization underlying consciousness in healthy individuals. in this case, mental imagery tasks combined with fmri can be used to detect covert awareness in patients that are unable to communicate.
The nurse cystoscopist: a feasible option? [SEP] the nurse cystoscopist: a feasible option? to compare the accuracy achieved by a trained urology nurse practitioner (unp) and consultant urologist in detecting bladder tumours during flexible cystoscopy. eighty-three patients underwent flexible cystoscopy by both the unp and consultant urologist, each unaware of the other's findings. before comparing the findings, each declared whether there was tumour or any suspicious lesion requiring biopsy. of 83 patients examined by flexible cystoscopy, 26 were found to have a tumour or a suspicious lesion. one tumour was missed by the unp and one by the urologist; each tumour was minute. analysis using the chance-corrected proportional agreement (kappa) was 0.94, indicating very close agreement. a unp can be trained to perform cystoscopy and detect suspicious lesions as accurately as can a consultant urologist. legal and training issues in implementation are important.
Is cardiovascular evaluation necessary prior to and during beta-blocker therapy for infantile hemangiomas? [SEP] is cardiovascular evaluation necessary prior to and during beta-blocker therapy for infantile hemangiomas? although consensus guidelines for pretreatment evaluation and monitoring of propranolol therapy in patients with infantile hemangiomas (ih) have been formulated, little is known about the cardiovascular side effects. we sought to analyze cardiovascular evaluations in patients with ih at baseline and during treatment with an oral beta-blocker. patient and family history, pretreatment electrocardiogram (ecg), heart rate, and blood pressure were evaluated before initiation of beta-blocker therapy. blood pressure and standardized questionnaires addressing side effects were evaluated during treatment. ecg findings were normal in each case and no serious complication of therapy occurred. ecg abnormalities were found in 6.5% of patients but there were no contraindications to beta-blocker therapy and no major complications. in all, 88 parents (81%) reported side effects during beta-blocker treatment. pretreatment ecg is of limited value for patients with an unremarkable cardiovascular history and a normal heart rate and blood pressure. hypotension may occur during treatment.
Is specialty care associated with improved survival of patients with congestive heart failure? [SEP] we compared the effects of chronic beta-blocker continuation vs. discontinuation on 90-day all-cause mortality among patients admitted from the emergency department with suspected infection. beta-blocker continuation was associated with a reduced risk of all-cause mortality within 90 days of hospital admission (hazard ratio 0.77; 95% ci, 0.61-0.98; p = 0.03) and shorter hospital stay (incidence rate ratio 0.39; 95% ci, 0.38-0.41; p < 0.001). non-survivors were significantly older (p<0.001), and comorbidities including coronary artery disease, chronic heart failure, and chronic renal failure were significantly associated with mortality. the outcomes of interest were heart failure hospitalization and all-cause mortality. incorporating arrhythmia surveillance and post-discharge risk stratification into anthracycline care pathways may improve long-term cardiovascular and survival outcomes in this vulnerable population. serum hemoglobin-to-creatinine ratio and post-discharge readmission or mortality in older patients with heart failure: a retrospective cohort study. older patients with heart failure (hf) experience poor prognoses after hospital discharge, underscoring the importance of risk stratification for improving out-of-hospital management. low-dose levosimendan infusions in advanced heart failure: efficacy, safety, and factors associated with outcomes. in advanced heart failure (adhf), repeated levosimendan infusions between 0.1 and 0.2 μg/kg/min for 6-24 h every 2-4 weeks were associated with inconsistent outcomes and trends towards worse prognosis. heart rate, bb therapy, and bb dosing at 3 months may predict event-free survival.
Can the prognosis of polymyalgia rheumatica be predicted at disease onset? [SEP] patient-reported outcome measures in incident polymyalgia rheumatica: changes after treatment initiation, short-term glucocorticoid discontinuation, and at one-year follow-up. the process from symptom onset to rheumatology clinic in polymyalgia rheumatica. polymyalgia rheumatica (pmr) is an inflammatory disease of individuals aged over 50 years. we report on a patient who had been initially diagnosed as having polymyalgia rheumatica. can the prognosis of polymyalgia rheumatica be predicted at disease onset? polymyalgia rheumatica can be distinguished from late onset rheumatoid arthritis at baseline: results of a 5-yr prospective study. serum interleukin-6 receptor in polymyalgia rheumatica: a potential marker of relapse/recurrence risk. to investigate the modulation of systemic levels of soluble interleukin-6 receptor (sil-6r) and soluble gp130 (sgp130) in untreated and treated polymyalgia rheumatica (pmr) patients during a followup period of at least 24 months in order to evaluate the relationship of these molecules with clinical outcome and their feasibility to provide a prognostic tool in clinical practice. peripheral musculoskeletal manifestations in polymyalgia rheumatica. the objectives of this study were to evaluate the frequency and characteristics of the peripheral musculoskeletal manifestations in polymyalgia rheumatica (pmr), evaluate if pmr with peripheral synovitis represents a subset with a more severe disease, and examine for clinical and laboratory characteristics at onset of pmr that might later predict rheumatoid arthritis (ra).
Should ascitis volume and anthropometric measurements be estimated in hospitalized alcoholic cirrotics? [SEP] should ascitis volume and anthropometric measurements be estimated in hospitalized alcoholic cirrotics? ascitis and undernutrition are frequent complications of cirrhosis, however ascitis volume and anthropometric assessment are not routinely documented or considered in prognostic evaluation. population (n = 25, all males with alcoholic cirrhosis) was recruited among patients hospitalized for uncomplicated ascitis. exclusion criteria were refractory or tense ascitis, cancer, spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, bleeding varices and critical illness. measurements included ultrasonographically estimated ascitis volume, dry body mass index/bmi , upper arm anthropometrics, hematologic counts and liver function tests. population (age 48.3 ± 11.3 years, bmi 21.1 ± 3.5 kg/m², serum albumin 2.5 ± 0.8 g/dl) was mostly in the child-pugh c category (77.8%) but clinically stable. admission ascitis volume corresponded to 7.1 ± 3.6 l and dry bmi to 18.3 ± 3.5 kg/m². nevertheless, similar matches for mortality were documented with ascitis volume and dry bmi, and arm circumference below the 5th percentile was highly significantly associated with rehospitalization. a greater association than hitherto acknowledged, between ascitis volume and anthropometric measurements from one side, and long-term rehospitalization and mortality from the other, was demonstrated in male stable alcoholic cirrhotics. further studies with alcoholic and other modalities of cirrhosis including women are recommended.
The use of audit to identify maternal mortality in different settings: is it just a difference between the rich and the poor? [SEP] the use of audit to identify maternal mortality in different settings: is it just a difference between the rich and the poor? to illustrate how maternal mortality audit identifies different causes of and contributing factors to maternal deaths in different settings in low- and high-income countries and how this can lead to local solutions in reducing maternal deaths. descriptive study of maternal mortality from different settings and review of data on the history of reducing maternal mortality in what are now high-income countries. differences in maternal mortality are more than just differences between the rich and poor. the use of audit to identify maternal mortality in different settings: is it just a difference between the rich and the poor? to illustrate how maternal mortality audit identifies different causes of and contributing factors to maternal deaths in different settings in low- and high-income countries and how this can lead to local solutions in reducing maternal deaths. differences in maternal mortality are more than just differences between the rich and poor. the use of audit to identify maternal mortality in different settings: is it just a difference between the rich and the poor? to illustrate how maternal mortality audit identifies different causes of and contributing factors to maternal deaths in different settings in low- and high-income countries and how this can lead to local solutions in reducing maternal deaths. differences in maternal mortality are more than just differences between the rich and poor.
Could the extent of lymphadenectomy be modified by neoadjuvant chemotherapy in cervical cancer? [SEP] could the extent of lymphadenectomy be modified by neoadjuvant chemotherapy in cervical cancer? the effect of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (nact) on topographical distribution patterns of lymph node metastasis in cervical cancer was unknown. the number of lymph nodes involved, response to nact, tumor histology and a positive vaginal margin were independent prognostic factors affecting dfs or os rates in node-positive patients treated with nact plus radical surgery. a systemic and extensive lymphadenectomy should be performed in patients treated with nact plus surgery regardless of the response to nact. impact of surgical staging in locally advanced cervical cancer and subsequent chemotherapy. surgical staging (ss) is the gold standard for determination of the true extent of a patient's disease and is an important prognostic factor in cervical cancer. we performed a cohort analysis of 98 patients with cervical carcinoma. [analysis of postoperative complications of radical hysterectomy for 219 cervical cancer patients]. to analyze the causes and therapeutic approaches for the complications of radical hysterectomy plus pelvic lymphadenectomy in cervical cancer patients. the complication of radical hysterectomy with pelvic lymphadenectomy is correlated with the surgery mode.
Do Wound Cultures Give Information About the Microbiology of Blood Cultures in Severe Burn Patients? [SEP] do wound cultures give information about the microbiology of blood cultures in severe burn patients? blood stream infection (bsi) and the subsequent development of sepsis are among the most common infection complications occurring in severe burn patients. this study was designed to evaluate the relationship between the burn wound flora and bsi pathogens. documentation of all bacterial and fungal wound and blood isolates from severe burn patients hospitalized in the burn unit and intensive care unit was obtained from medical records retrieved retrospectively from a computerized, hospital-wide database over a 13-year period. all data were recorded in relation to the ryan score. of 195 severe burn patients, 88 had at least 1 bsi episode. transmission of the same pathogen from wound to blood was documented in 30% of the patients, with a rising bsi frequency as the ryan score increased. there were a total of 263 bacteremic episodes in 88 study patients, 44% of blood isolates were documented previously in wound cultures, and transmission of the same pathogen from wound to blood was noted in 65% of bacteremic patients. when there is clinical suspicion of sepsis, appropriate empirical systemic antibiotic therapy should be broad spectrum and should rely on the susceptibility of the organisms from recent cultures of the burn wound surface, until the blood cultures results are completed.
Are behavioural risk factors to be blamed for the conversion from optimal blood pressure to hypertensive status in Black South Africans? [SEP] are behavioural risk factors to be blamed for the conversion from optimal blood pressure to hypertensive status in black south africans? longitudinal cohort studies in sub-saharan africa are urgently needed to understand cardiovascular disease development. we, therefore, explored health behaviours and conventional risk factors of african individuals with optimal blood pressure (bp) (≤ 120/80 mm hg), and their 5-year prediction for the development of hypertension. the prospective urban rural epidemiology study in the north west province, south africa, started in 2005 and included african volunteers (n = 1994; aged > 30 years) from a sample of 6000 randomly selected households in rural and urban areas. at baseline, 48% of the participants were hypertensive (≥ 140/90 mmhg). africans that became hypertensive smoked more than the normotensive individuals (68.2% vs 49.8%), and they also had a greater waist circumference [ratio of geometric means of 0.94 cm (95% ci: 0.86-0.99)] and greater amount of γ-glutamyltransferase [0.74 u/l (95% ci: 0.62-0.88)] at baseline. alcohol intake also predicted central systolic bp and carotid cross-sectional wall area (cswa) at follow-up. hiv infection was inversely associated with increased bp. during the 5 years, 24% of africans with optimal bp developed hypertension. the surge in hypertension in africa is largely explained by modifiable risk factors.
Systematic use of patient-rated depression severity monitoring: is it helpful and feasible in clinical psychiatry? [SEP] systematic use of patient-rated depression severity monitoring: is it helpful and feasible in clinical psychiatry? findings from the sequenced treatments alternatives to relieve depression (star*d) emphasized the importance of measurement-based care for the treatment of depression as a key ingredient for achieving response and remission; yet measurement-based care approaches are not commonly used in clinical practice. the nine-item patient health questionnaire (phq-9) for monitoring depression severity was introduced in 19 diverse psychiatric practices. during the one-year course of the project the helpfulness and feasibility of implementation of phq-9 in these psychiatric practices were studied. by the conclusion of the study, all remaining 17 practices had adopted phq-9 as a routine part of depression care in their practice. on the basis of responses from 17 psychiatrists from those practices, phq-9 scores influenced clinical decision making for 93% of 6,096 patient contacts. with the additional information gained from the phq-9 score, one or more treatment changes occurred during 40% of these clinical contacts. changing the dosage of antidepressant medication and adding another medication were the most common treatment changes recorded by psychiatrists, followed by starting or increasing psychotherapy and by switching or initiating antidepressants. in 3% of the patient contacts, using the phq-9 led to additional suicide risk assessment. the study findings suggest that adopting measurement-based care, such as using the phq-9, is achievable, even in practices with limited resources.
Treadmill training post stroke: are there any secondary benefits? [SEP] gait training at fast speeds is recommended to reduce walking activity limitations post-stroke. however, the greater amount of walking practice observed for the c-mill group, an essential aspect of effective intervention programs after stroke, may underlie the reported increased perceived fitness and observed increased context-specific walking speed for the c-mill group directly after the intervention. moderate-intensity exercise versus high-intensity interval training to recover walking post-stroke: protocol for a randomized controlled trial. current exercise recommendations and stroke rehabilitation guidelines recommend moderate-intensity aerobic training post-stroke. using a single-blind, 3-site randomized controlled trial, 50 chronic (> 6 months) stroke survivors are randomly assigned to complete 36 locomotor training sessions of either high-intensity interval training or moderate-intensity aerobic training. physical fitness training in subacute stroke (phys-stroke)--study protocol for a randomised controlled trial. our objective is to assess whether additional treatment in the form of physical fitness-based training for patients early after stroke will provide benefits in terms of functional outcomes, in particular gait speed and the barthel index (co-primary outcome measures) reflecting activities of daily living (adl). treadmill training post stroke: are there any secondary benefits? to explore the secondary benefits of treadmill training for people in the chronic stage of recovery from stroke. a task-specific intervention designed to improve gait speed may potentially provide secondary benefits by positively impacting depression, mobility and social participation for people post stroke.
Does lunar position influence the time of delivery? [SEP] the influence of lunar cycle on frequency of birth, birth complications, neonatal outcome and the gender: a retrospective analysis. the relation of lunar phases to the birth rate has been the focus of considerable research with still controversial results. the purpose of this study was to examine the influence of the lunar cycle on the frequency of birth, on instrumental delivery, neonatal outcome as well as a possible relationship between lunar position at time of conception and the gender of the child. the analysis revealed no significant correlation of birth rate to lunar phases. there is no predictable influence of the lunar cycle on deliveries or delivery complications nor to the gender of the baby. does lunar position influence the time of delivery? to study the relationship between lunar position and the day of delivery; to investigate the synodic distribution of spontaneous deliveries, especially in relation to the presence of a full moon. a connection between the distribution of spontaneous full-term deliveries and the lunar month was found. the effect of the phases of the moon seems to be particularly relevant in multiparae and plurigravidae; in these cases, the mean day of delivery corresponds to the first or second day after the full moon. in this paper the effect of lunar phases on the time of delivery is shown.
Is oral endotracheal intubation efficacy impaired in the helicopter environment? [SEP] is oral endotracheal intubation efficacy impaired in the helicopter environment? patients transported by helicopter often require advanced airway management. the purpose of this study was to determine whether or not the in-flight environment of air medical transport in a bo-105 helicopter impairs the ability of flight nurses to perform oral endotracheal intubation. the study was conducted in an mbb bo-105 helicopter. flight nurses performed three manikin intubations in each of the two study environments: on an emergency department stretcher and in-flight in the bo-105 helicopter. the mean time required for in-flight intubation (25.9 +/- 10.9 seconds) was significantly longer than the corresponding time (13.2 +/- 2.8 seconds) required for intubation in the control setting (anova, f = 38.7, p < .001). all intubations performed in the control setting were placed correctly in the trachea; there were two (6.7%) esophageal intubations in the in-flight setting. the difference in appropriate endotracheal intubation between the two settings was not significant (chi 2 = 0.3; p > 0.05). oral endotracheal intubation in the in-flight setting of the bo-105 helicopter takes approximately twice as long as intubation in a ground setting. the results support pre-flight intubation of patients who appear likely to require urgent intubation during air medical transport in the bo-105 helicopter.
Telemedicine and type 1 diabetes: is technology per se sufficient to improve glycaemic control? [SEP] telemedicine and type 1 diabetes: is technology per se sufficient to improve glycaemic control? in the telediab-1 study, the diabeo system (a smartphone coupled to a website) improved hba1c by 0.9% vs controls in patients with chronic, poorly controlled type 1 diabetes. the system provided two main functions: automated advice on the insulin doses required; and remote monitoring by teleconsultation. each patient received a smartphone with an insulin dose advisor (ida) and with (g3 group) or without (g2 group) the telemonitoring/teleconsultation function. patients were classified as "high users" if the proportion of "informed" meals using the ida exceeded 67% (median) and as "low users" if not. also analyzed was the respective impact of the ida function and teleconsultations on the final hba1c levels. among the high users, the proportion of informed meals remained stable from baseline to the end of the study 6months later (from 78.1±21.5% to 73.8±25.1%; p=0.107), but decreased in the low users (from 36.6±29.4% to 26.7±28.4%; p=0.005). as expected, hba1c improved in high users from 8.7% [range: 8.3-9.2%] to 8.2% [range: 7.8-8.7%] in patients with (n=26) vs without (n=30) the benefit of telemonitoring/teleconsultation (-0.49±0.60% vs -0.52±0.73%, respectively; p=0.879). however, although hba1c also improved in low users from 9.0% [8.5-10.1] to 8.5% [7.9-9.6], those receiving support via teleconsultation tended to show greater improvement than the others (-0.93±0.97 vs -0.46±1.05, respectively; p=0.084). the diabeo system improved glycaemic control in both high and low users who avidly used the ida function, while the greatest improvement was seen in the low users who had the motivational support of teleconsultations.
Is controlled ovarian stimulation in intrauterine insemination an acceptable therapy in couples with unexplained non-conception in the perspective of multiple pregnancies? [SEP] is controlled ovarian stimulation in intrauterine insemination an acceptable therapy in couples with unexplained non-conception in the perspective of multiple pregnancies? controlled ovarian stimulation (cos) with intrauterine insemination (iui) is a common treatment in couples with unexplained non-conception. induction of multifollicular growth is considered to improve pregnancy outcome, but it contains an increased risk of multiple pregnancies and ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome. in this study the impact of the number of follicles (>14 mm) on the ongoing pregnancy rate (pr) and multiple pr was evaluated in the first four treatment cycles. a retrospective cohort study was performed in all couples with unexplained non-conception undergoing cos-iui in the academic hospital of maastricht. secondary outcomes were ongoing multiple pr, number of follicles of >or=14 mm, and order of treatment cycle. no significant difference was found in ongoing pr between women with one, two, three or four follicles respectively (p=0.54), but in women with two or more follicles 12/73 pregnancies were multiples. in cos-iui for unexplained non-conception, induction of more than one follicle did not improve the ongoing pr, but increased the risk of multiple pregnancies. multiple pr remained high in the first four cycles with multifollicular stimulation. therefore, in order to reduce the number of multiple pregnancies, in all iui cycles for unexplained non-conception monofollicular growth should be aimed at.
Is half-dose contrast-enhanced three-dimensional MR angiography sufficient for the abdominal aorta and pelvis? [SEP] is half-dose contrast-enhanced three-dimensional mr angiography sufficient for the abdominal aorta and pelvis? to evaluate the usefulness of half-dose contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance (mr) angiography for depicting the abdominal aorta and its major branches. a total of 72 consecutive patients were randomly assigned to one of four groups that underwent mr angiography after receiving different concentrations (original or diluted to 50%) and total amounts (single or half-dose) of gadolinium chelate injected at different rates (1 or 0.5 ml/second). the signal-to-noise ratio (snr) and contrast-to-noise ratio (cnr) of the abdominal aorta and of the common and external iliac arteries were calculated, and two blinded readers rated the respective image qualities. the snr and cnr of the abdominal aorta and the common iliac artery in the 0.5 ml/second groups were statistically significantly lower than those in the 1 ml/second groups. the differences in overall image quality across the four groups were not statistically significant. half-dose mr angiography using diluted contrast medium injected at a rate of 1 ml/second depicted the abdominal aorta and its branches as clearly as using a full single dose.
Digital Tomosynthesis: A Viable Alternative to Noncontrast Computed Tomography for the Follow-Up of Nephrolithiasis? [SEP] digital tomosynthesis: a viable alternative to noncontrast computed tomography for the follow-up of nephrolithiasis? digital tomosynthesis (dt) is a new x-ray-based imaging technique that allows image enhancement with minimal increase in radiation exposure. the purpose of this study was to compare dt with noncontrast computed tomography (ncct) and to evaluate its potential role for the follow-up of patients with nephrolithiasis in a nonemergent setting. a retrospective review of patients with nephrolithiasis at our institution that underwent ncct and dt from july 2012 to september 2013 was performed. renal units (rus) that did not undergo treatment or stone passage were randomly assigned to two blinded readers, who recorded stone count, size area (mm(2)), maximum stone length (mm), and location, for both dt and ncct. potential variables affecting stone detection rate, including stone size and body mass index (bmi), were evaluated. dt and ncct demonstrated similar stone detection rates in terms of stone counts and stone area mm(2). of the 79 rus assessed, 41 rus showed exact stone counts on dt and ncct. we found dt to be a comparable imaging modality to ncct for the detection of intrarenal stones, without a significant effect from stone size and bmi and adequate reproducibility between multiple readers. dt appears to be an ideal alternative for following patients with nephrolithiasis due to its acceptable stone detection rates, low radiation exposure, and decreased cost compared to ncct.
High cumulative insulin exposure: a risk factor of atherosclerosis in type 1 diabetes? [SEP] high cumulative insulin exposure: a risk factor of atherosclerosis in type 1 diabetes? since insulin therapy might have an atherogenic effect, we studied the relationship between cumulative insulin dose and atherosclerosis in type 1 diabetes. we have focused on patients with type 1 diabetes instead of type 2 diabetes to minimise the effect of insulin resistance as a potential confounder. an observational study was performed in 215 subjects with type 1 diabetes treated with multiple insulin injection therapy. these findings provide evidence that a high cumulative dose of regular insulin is a risk factor for atherosclerosis. evolving natural history of coronary artery disease in diabetes mellitus. white diabetic patients are at high risk of developing coronary artery disease (cad). the natural history of cad in insulin-dependent (id) and noninsulin-dependent (nid) diabetes mellitus (dm) is reviewed to gain insight into the mechanisms responsible for the development of premature or accelerated atherosclerosis in diabetic patients. in both iddm and niddm, the risk of cad increases with lengthening duration of diabetes; the risk, however, does not grow as a constant multiple of the nondiabetic risk of cad, suggesting that the cumulative exposure to diabetes plays a significant role as a risk factor for cad only in a subset of patients. the component of the diabetic milieu responsible for promotion of atherosclerotic lesions is unknown.
Are hepatitis G virus and TT virus involved in cryptogenic chronic liver disease? [SEP] are hepatitis g virus and tt virus involved in cryptogenic chronic liver disease? hepatitis g virus can cause chronic infection in man but the role of this agent in chronic liver disease is poorly understood. little is known about the relation of another newly discovered agent, the tt virus, with chronic liver disease. to investigate the rate of infection with hepatitis g virus and tt virus in patients with cryptogenic chronic liver disease. a total of 23 subjects with chronically raised alanine transaminase and a liver biopsy in whom all known causes of liver disease had been excluded, and 40 subjects with hepatitis c virus-related chronic liver disease. hepatitis g virus-rna was detected in 4 out of 23 patients with cryptogenic chronic hepatitis and in 6 out of 40 with hepatitis c virus chronic hepatitis (17.4% vs 15% p=ns). at least one marker of hepatitis g virus infection (hepatitis g virus-rna and/or anti-hepatitis g virus, mostly mutually exclusive) was present in 6 out of 23 patients with cryptogenic hepatitis and 16 out of 40 with hepatitis c virus liver disease (26. t virus-dna was present in serum in 3 subjects, 1 with cryptogenic and 2 with hepatitis c virus-related chronic liver disease. its frequency in subjects with cryptogenic liver disease parallels that observed in hepatitis c virus chronic liver disease, thus ruling out an aetiologic role of hepatitis g virus. tt virus infection is uncommon in patients with cryptogenic or hepatitis c virus-related liver disease who do not have a history of parenteral exposure.
Do older patients who refuse to participate in a self-management intervention in the Netherlands differ from older patients who agree to participate? [SEP] 
Preoperative locoregional staging of gastric cancer: is there a place for magnetic resonance imaging? [SEP] 
Do familiar teammates request and accept more backup? [SEP] do familiar teammates request and accept more backup? the present study investigated factors that explain when and why different groups of teammates are more likely to request and accept backup from one another when needed in an environment characterized by extreme time pressure and severe consequences of error: commercial air traffic control (atc). transactive memory theory states that teammates develop consensus regarding the distribution of their relative expertise as well as confidence in that expertise over time and that this facilitates coordination processes. the present study investigated whether this theory could help to explain between-team differences in requesting and accepting backup when needed. teammates with greater experience working together requested and accepted backup from one another more than those with lesser experience working together. teammate knowledge consensus and perceived team efficacy appear to have mediated this relationship. transactive memory theory extends to high-stress environments in which members' expertise is highly overlapping. teammates' shared mental models about one another increase the likelihood that they will request and accept backup. teammate familiarity should be considered when choosing among potential replacement team members. training strategies that accelerate the development of teammate knowledge consensus and team efficacy are warranted.
Transsphenoidal pituitary surgery in Cushing's disease: can we predict outcome? [SEP] the cuper model: a dynamic online tool for predicting cushing's disease persistence and recurrence after pituitary surgery. a multicenter study of unplanned hospital readmissions after transsphenoidal surgery for cushing's disease. patients undergoing surgery for cushing's disease may be more likely to be readmitted to the hospital than other patients with pituitary disorders. we investigated rates, causes, and predictors of unplanned readmission following transsphenoidal surgery for cushing's disease to identify areas for clinical, financial, and administrative improvements. five hundred and nineteen patients underwent transsphenoidal surgery for treatment of cushing's disease by 26 surgeons at nine participating institutions from 2003 to 2023. our results show that readmission rates after transsphenoidal surgery for cushing's disease are comparable to previously reported rates for all pituitary-related disorders, with the most common reason being hyponatremia. long-term outcomes of pituitary radiotherapy and their predictive factors in childhood and adolescent-onset cushing disease. prediction of remission and recurrence of cushing's disease following transsphenoidal surgery (tss): a single center, 20-year, retrospective series. pituitary surgery in new zealand: a single neurosurgeon case series of 1,224 operations. clinical implications of molecular and genetic biomarkers in cushing's disease: a literature review.
Can bedside assessment reliably exclude aspiration following acute stroke? [SEP] can bedside assessment reliably exclude aspiration following acute stroke? to investigate the ability of a bedside swallowing assessment to reliably exclude aspiration following acute stroke. consecutive patients admitted within 24 h of stroke onset to two hospitals. a videofluoroscopy examination was conducted within 3 days of admission. 94 patients underwent videofluoroscopy; 20 (21%) were seen to be aspirating, although this was not detected at the bedside in 10. bedside assessment by a speech and language therapist gave a sensitivity of 47%, a specificity of 86%, positive predictive value (ppv) of 50% and a negative predictive value (npv) of 85% for the presence of aspiration. multiple logistic regression was used to identify the optimum elements of the bedside assessments for predicting the presence of aspiration. a weak voluntary cough and any alteration in conscious level gave a sensitivity of 75%, specificity of 72%, ppv of 41% and npv of 91% for aspiration. bedside assessment of swallowing lacks the necessary sensitivity to be used as a screening instrument in acute stroke, but there are concerns about the use of videofluoroscopy as a gold standard. the relative importance of aspiration and bedside assessment in predicting complications and outcome needs to be studied.
Are UK radiologists satisfied with the training and support received in suspected child abuse? [SEP] are uk radiologists satisfied with the training and support received in suspected child abuse? to determine current practice and perceptions of the adequacy of training and support received for the reporting of skeletal surveys in suspected physical child abuse. a list of telephone numbers of uk hospitals with a radiology department was obtained from the royal college of radiologists. an 18-item questionnaire was successfully administered to consultant radiologists from 84 departments. sixty-one percent of departments had a named radiologist to report their skeletal surveys, 16% assigned surveys to a random radiologist, and 23% referred them elsewhere. only 52% of departments had a dedicated paediatric radiologist, thus in a significant proportion of departments (25%) initial reports on skeletal surveys for physical abuse were provided by non-paediatric radiologists. fifteen percent did not have ready access to a paediatric radiology opinion. expert evidence was provided by 5% of respondents. seventy-three percent would never consider providing expert evidence, even if given adequate radiology and/or legal training. the survey shows significant dissatisfaction amongst consultant radiologists with the current service, confirms a low number of paediatric radiologists taking on this work, and suggests the potential to increase numbers of radiology child abuse experts by 27% if given improved training and support.
Can the condition of the cell microenvironment of mediastinal lymph nodes help predict the risk of metastases in non-small cell lung cancer? [SEP] can the condition of the cell microenvironment of mediastinal lymph nodes help predict the risk of metastases in non-small cell lung cancer? the aim of this study was to analyze the properties of the immune cell microenvironment of regional lymph nodes (lns) positive for lung cancer. peripheral blood and ln tissue were obtained from different lymph node sites and levels. as a control, ln tissue was taken from patients diagnosed with emphysema or pneumothorax. the presence of metastases correlated with the downregulation of tcr zeta, especially cd8(+) t cells. the most striking feature was the reduction in the number of myeloid cd11c(+) dendritic cells in the ln of patients with ln metastases. this could be a reflection of the immunodeficient state observed in lung cancer patients. even in the absence of metastases in the regional ln, the same type of changes in the ln microenvironment were observed in those ln located nearer the primary tumor. the preliminary results of this study suggest that this approach may be helpful as an independent tumor staging factor. it is also worth noting that part of the staging process could also be based on features describing the immune cells in the peripheral blood.
Are wandering and physically nonaggressive agitation equivalent? [SEP] are wandering and physically nonaggressive agitation equivalent? the authors examined equivalence of wandering and physically nonaggressive agitation (pna) as concepts. video-tapes for up to twelve 20-minute observations per participant were coded for wandering using an empirically derived taxonomy of ambulation patterns. separate raters coded the same tapes for six pna behaviors on the agitation behavior mapping instrument. most participants (73.5%) wandered; all showed pna behaviors. factor analyses yielded an one-factor solution for wandering (explained variance = 43.66%) and a two-factor solution for pna (explained variance = 53.45%). overall wandering correlated significantly with pna factor 1 (df =179, r = 0.68, p <0.001) and factor 2, but at a lower value (df = 179, r = 0.26, p <0.01). findings depict wandering and pna as overlapping, but nonequivalent phenomena. evidence supporting construct validity of wandering was more robust than that for pna. results have implications for accuracy in scientific and clinical detection and labeling of wandering and agitation.
Is size-reducing ascending aortoplasty with external reinforcement an option in modern aortic surgery? [SEP] is size-reducing ascending aortoplasty with external reinforcement an option in modern aortic surgery? enlargement of the ascending aorta is often combined with valvular, coronary, or other cardiac diseases. reduction aortoplasty can be an optional therapy; however, indications regarding the diameter of aorta, the history of dilatation (poststenosis, bicuspid aortic valve), or the intraoperative management (wall excision, reduction suture, external reinforcement) are not established. in a retrospective study between 1997 and 2005, we investigated 531 patients operated for aneurysm or ectasia of the ascending aorta (diameter: 45-76mm). of these, in 50 patients, size-reducing ascending aortoplasty was performed. external reinforcement with a non-coated dacron prosthesis was added in order to stabilize the aortic wall. aortoplasty was associated with aortic valve replacement in 47 cases (35 mechanical vs 12 biological), subvalvular myectomy in 29 cases, and cabg in 13 cases. computertomographic and echocardiographic diameters were significantly smaller after reduction (55.8+/-9mm down to 40.51+/-6.2mm (ct), p<0.002; 54.1+/-6.7mm preoperatively down to 38.7+/-7.1mm (echocardiography), p<0.002), with stable performance in long-term follow-up (mean follow-up time: 70 months). as demonstrated in this study, size reduction of the ascending aorta using aortoplasty with external reinforcement is a safe procedure with excellent long-term results. it is a therapeutic option in modern aortic surgery in patients with poststenotic dilatation of the aorta without impairment of the sinotubular junction of the aortic valve and root.
Does depression diagnosis and antidepressant prescribing vary by location? [SEP] does depression diagnosis and antidepressant prescribing vary by location? analysis of ethnic density associations using a large primary-care dataset. studies have linked ethnic differences in depression rates with neighbourhood ethnic density although results have not been conclusive. we looked at this using a novel approach analysing whole population data covering just over one million gp patients in four london boroughs. using a dataset of gp records for all patients registered in lambeth, hackney, tower hamlets and newham in 2013 we investigated new diagnoses of depression and antidepressant use for: indian, pakistani, bangladeshi, black caribbean and black african patients. neighbourhood effects were assessed independently of gp practice using a cross-classified multilevel model. black and minority ethnic groups are up to four times less likely to be newly diagnosed with depression or prescribed antidepressants compared to white british patients. we found an inverse relationship between neighbourhood ethnic density and new depression diagnosis for some groups, where an increase of 10% own-ethnic density was associated with a statistically significant (p < 0.05) reduced odds of depression for pakistani [odds ratio (or) 0.81, 95% confidence interval (ci) 0.70-0.93], indian (or 0.88, ci 0.81-0.95), african (or 0.88, ci 0.78-0.99) and bangladeshi (or 0.94, ci 0.90-0.99) patients. the results for antidepressant use were very similar although the corresponding effect for black caribbeans was no longer statistically significant (p = 0.07). new depression diagnosis and antidepressant use was shown to be less likely in areas of higher own-ethnic density for some, but not all, ethnic groups.
Volume change of uterine myomas during pregnancy: do myomas really grow? [SEP] volume change of uterine myomas during pregnancy: do myomas really grow? to estimate changes in uterine myoma volume during pregnancy. review of departmental electronic perinatal database and medical records. obstetrical ultrasound unit in an academic tertiary care center. one hundred-seven patients diagnosed with uterine myomas during pregnancy and who had two or more obstetrical ultrasounds in different periods of pregnancy. we analyzed the change in volume of uterine myomas between the first half of pregnancy (up until 19 weeks), third quarter (20-30 weeks), and last quarter (31 weeks to term). the volume of largest uterine myoma was calculated using the formula volume (mm3)=pi/6x(length mm)x(width mm)x(height mm). between the first and the second study periods, the percentage of uterine myomas that decreased in size was 55.1% (95% ci: 43-66), with a mean decrease in volume of 35%+/-4%; while the percentage of uterine myomas that enlarged was 44.9% (95% ci: 34-56), with a mean increase in volume of 69%+/-11%. between the second and the third study periods, 75% (95% ci: 56-87) became smaller, with a mean decrease in volume of 30%+/-3%; while 25% (95% ci: 13-43) enlarged, with a mean increase in volume of 102%+/-62%. contrary to common belief, we found that uterine myomas commonly decrease in volume over the course of pregnancy.
Is laparoscopic adrenalectomy safe and effective for adrenal masses larger than 7 cm? [SEP] [laparoscopic adrenalectomy in giant masses]. nevertheless, one of the much discussed topics is the dimensional cut-off for the laparoscopic treatment and it is not clear if laparoscopy should be used in large adrenal masses.introduction. laparoscopic adrenalectomy is the goal standard in benign adrenal masses smaller than 6 cm, while its advantages in masses larger than this cut-off and in malignant lesions is still discussed. we present six cases of laparoscopic adrenalectomy since november 2008 for masses between 7 and 15 cm; 4 men and 2 women. many surgeons performed laparoscopic adrenalectomy for masses of up to 13 cm, thus demonstrating that this procedure is safe and effective. our experience, supported by the literature, demonstrates that the laparoscopic adrenalectomy is a feasible and effective surgical technique also in the case of giant masses. is laparoscopic adrenalectomy safe and effective for adrenal masses larger than 7 cm? laparoscopic adrenalectomy (la) has become the gold standard treatment for small (less than 6 cm) adrenal masses. 18 consecutive laparoscopic adrenalectomies were performed from 1996 to 2005 on patients with adrenal lesions larger than 7 cm. la for adrenal masses larger than 7 cm is a safe and feasible technique, offering successful outcome in terms of intraoperative and postoperative morbidity, hospital stay and cosmesis for patients; it seems to replicate open surgical oncological principles demonstrating similar outcomes as survival rate and recurrence rate, when adrenal cortical carcinoma were treated.
Upstream solutions: does the supplemental security income program reduce disability in the elderly? [SEP] upstream solutions: does the supplemental security income program reduce disability in the elderly? income support policies are one promising avenue to improve population health. this study examines whether the federal cash transfer program to poor elderly, the supplemental security income (ssi) program, affects old-age disability. this study uses the 1990 and 2000 censuses, employing state and year fixed-effect models, to test whether within-state changes in maximum ssi benefits over time lead to changes in disability among people aged sixty-five and older. higher benefits are linked to lower disability rates. among all single elderly individuals, 30 percent have mobility limitations, and an increase of $100 per month in the maximum ssi benefit caused the rate of mobility limitations to fall by 0.46 percentage points. first, analyses limited to those most likely to receive ssi produced larger effects, but analyses limited to those least likely to receive ssi produced no measurable effect. third, excluding the institutionalized, immigrants, individuals living in states with exceptionally large benefit changes, and individuals living in states with no ssi supplements did not change the substantive conclusions. income support policy may be a significant new lever for improving population health, especially that of lower-income persons. future research should examine a variety of different income support policies, as well as whether a broader range of social and economic policies affect health.
Profiling quality of care: Is there a role for peer review? [SEP] 
Eyelid-parotid metastasis: do we screen for coexisting masses? [SEP] eyelid-parotid metastasis: do we screen for coexisting masses? a case series. to report three cases illustrating that it is not unusual for a primary eyelid tumour to metastasise to the parotid gland and vice versa. two patients with malignant parotid tumours underwent radical parotidectomy and presented subsequently with eyelid lesions. biopsy showed that both eyelid lesions were histologically similar to the primary parotid tumour. a third patient was noted to have ipsilateral upper eyelid and parotid gland tumours. histology and immunocytochemistry were used to differentiate the primary tumour and the metastasis. these cases illustrate that tumours involving eyelids and parotid glands can present simultaneously or sequentially, and either of these structures could be the focus of primary or metastatic tumour. the important message for oculoplastic and parotid surgeons is to routinely assess both the periocular and parotid area when patients present with a mass in either structure.
Will CT ordering practices change if we educate residents about the potential effects of radiation exposure? [SEP] will ct ordering practices change if we educate residents about the potential effects of radiation exposure? the aim of this study was to determine if educating residents about the potential effects of radiation exposure from computed tomographic (ct) imaging alters ordering patterns. this study also explored whether referring physicians are interested in radiation education and was an initial effort to address their ct ordering behavior. two to four months after a radiologist's lecture on the potential effects of radiation exposure related to ct scans, urology and orthopedic residents were surveyed regarding the number and types of ct scans they ordered, the use of alternative imaging modalities, and whether they used the lecture information to educate patients. the types of ct scans ordered changed after the lecture for 14% (three of 21). patients directed questions about radiation exposure to 57% (12 of 21); 38% (eight of 21) used the lecture information to educate patients. referring physicians were interested in the topic, and afterward, other physician groups requested radiation education lectures. most clinicians did not change their ct scan ordering after receiving education about radiation from a radiologist. radiation education allowed clinicians to discuss ct benefits and risks with their patients and to choose appropriate ct protocols. referring physician groups are interested in this topic, and radiologists should be encouraged to give radiation lectures to them.
Does context matter for the relationship between deprivation and all-cause mortality? [SEP] continuing inequalities in covid-19 mortality in england and wales, and the changing importance of regional, over local, deprivation. deprivation is commonly proposed as explaining such differences. we explore how this impacted the relationship between deprivation and mortality and see whether local or regional deprivation matters more for inequalities in covid-19 mortality. we go on to explore whether deprivation explains such inequalities. we find spatial context is most important, and spatial inequalities higher, during periods of low mortality. during october 2020, one standard deviation increase in regional deprivation was associated with 20% higher local mortality (95% ci, 1.10 to 1.30). considered simultaneously, air pollution added to deprivation-health associations; interactions between air pollution and deprivation modified and strengthened associations with all-cause and respiratory disease mortality, especially in 'most' deprived areas where most-vulnerable people lived and where health needs were greatest. does context matter for the relationship between deprivation and all-cause mortality? using postcode sector data for scotland (uk), this study tests the hypothesis of spatial heterogeneity in the relationship between area-level deprivation and mortality to determine if contextual differences in the west vs. the rest of scotland influence this relationship. the homogeneity we found in the deprivation-mortality relationship across the regions of scotland and the absence of a contextualized effect of region highlights the importance of taking a broader strategic policy that can combat the toxic impacts of socio-economic deprivation on health.
Does stress increase imitation of drinking behavior? [SEP] adolescent smoking and drinking are influenced by parental supervision. does stress increase imitation of drinking behavior? that alcohol consumption is strongly influenced by the drinking behavior of social company has been demonstrated in observational research. however, not everyone is equally vulnerable to other people's drinking, and it is important to unravel which factors underlie these individual differences. this study focuses on the role of psychosocial stress in attempting to explain individual differences in the propensity to imitate alcohol consumption. with a 2 (confederate's drinking condition: alcohol vs. soda) × 2 (participant's stress condition: stress vs. no stress) experimental design, we tested whether the tendency to imitate other people's drinking was related to participants' induced stress levels. in each session, directly after the stress or no-stress period, confederates and participants entered a bar laboratory where we observed their drinking behavior. participants in both stress and no-stress conditions consumed substantially more alcohol when confederates drank alcohol than when they drank soda. no moderating effect of stress on the tendency to drink along with peers was found. generally, it appears that among young male adults, imitation of alcohol consumption is a robust phenomenon not dependent on individual stress levels.
School food policy at Dutch primary schools: room for improvement? [SEP] implementation support structure for the dutch health promoting school program: a multiple case study. school food policy at dutch primary schools: room for improvement? the effectiveness of a school food policy is affected by the content of the policy, its implementation and its support by parents, teachers and principals. the aim of this study is to detect opportunities to improve the school food policy and/or implementation at dutch primary schools. therefore, this study explores the school food policy and investigates schools' (teachers and principals) and parents' opinion on the school food policy. data on the schools' perspective of the food policy was collected from principals and teachers by means of semi-structured interviews. most principals (87.1%) reported that their school had a written food policy; however in most cases the rules were not clearly defined. parents' opinion on the enforcement of the school food policy varied: 28.1% believed that the school should enforce the policy more strongly, 32.1% was satisfied, and 39.8% had no opinion on this topic. dutch primary schools could play a more important role in fostering healthy eating habits among children. the school food policy could be improved by clearly formulating food rules, simplifying supervision of the food rules, and defining how to enforce the food rules.
Is the atopy patch test with house dust mites specific for atopic dermatitis? [SEP] 
Juvenile osteochondritis dissecans: is it a growth disturbance of the secondary physis of the epiphysis? [SEP] juvenile osteochondritis dissecans: is it a growth disturbance of the secondary physis of the epiphysis? the primary physis is responsible for longitudinal bone growth. similarly, epiphysial growth relies on endochondral ossification from the circumferential secondary physeal [corrected]. the cause of juvenile osteochondritis dissecans (ocd) remains elusive. we hypothesized that juvenile ocd results from an insult affecting endochondral ossification from the secondary physis. the purpose of our study was to evaluate the mri appearance of the distal femoral epiphysis-particularly the secondary physis-of children with juvenile ocd and to compare these findings with the mri findings of unaffected children. we suggest that disruption of normal endochondral ossification may be associated with juvenile ocd. [histological study of cartilage channels in the epiphyseal cartilage of young dogs and their relationship to that of osteochondrosis dissecans in the most frequently affected locations]. osteochondrosis is a disease occurring in many species of domestic animals. to a certain degree these changes can be considered as normal in the development and growth of a young dog, but combined with other factors like trauma or stress, they may play a favoring role in the pathogenesis of osteochondrosis as well.
Do preoperative statins reduce atrial fibrillation after coronary artery bypass grafting? [SEP] incidence and predictors of postoperative atrial fibrillation following coronary artery bypass graft surgery: a meta-analysis of 207 studies. impact of high-intensity statin on atrial fibrillation after off-pump coronary artery bypass. this study was conducted to evaluate the impact of high-intensity statin treatment on the occurrence rate of new-onset postoperative atrial fibrillation (poaf) after off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (opcab).six hundred and thirteen patients (66.8 ± 9.8 years, male:female = 476:137) who underwent isolated opcab were retrospectively enrolled. effects of preoperative statin on the frequency of ventricular fibrillation and c-reactive protein level in patients undergoing isolated coronary artery bypass grafting. to investigate the effects of statin use in preoperative period on the development of ventricular fibrillation (vf) following the removal of aortic cross-clamp (acc) and on the levels of inflammation biomarker c-reactive protein (crp) in patients who undergo elective isolated coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg). what is the role of metabolic syndrome and obesity for postoperative atrial fibrillation after coronary bypass grafting? the role of statins in the management of patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. preoperative administration of statins in these patients substantially reduces the risk of postoperative atrial fibrillation and shortens hospital and intensive care unit (icu) stay. effects of perioperative statin treatment on postoperative atrial fibrillation and cardiac mortality in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting: a propensity score analysis. to evaluate the effect of perioperative statin treatment on postoperative atrial fibrillation and cardiac mortality in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting.
Can decisional algorithms replace global introspection in the individual causality assessment of spontaneously reported ADRs? [SEP] can decisional algorithms replace global introspection in the individual causality assessment of spontaneously reported adrs? the usefulness of algorithms for assessing the causality of suspected adverse drug reactions (adrs) has yet to be established and, since the validation of causality algorithms depends upon their sensitivity and specificity, our study was carried out to evaluate these measures. in this study, an expert panel assessed causality of adverse reports by using the who global introspection (gi) method. the same reports were independently assessed using 15 published algorithms. the causality assessment level 'possible' was considered the lower limit for a report to be considered to be drug related. for a given algorithm, sensitivity was determined by the proportion of reports simultaneously classified as drug related by the algorithm and the gi method. specificity was measured as the proportion of reports simultaneously considered non-drug related. the analysis was performed for the total sample and within serious or unexpected events. decisional algorithms are sensitive methods for the detection of adrs, but they present poor specificity. algorithms do not replace gi and are not definite alternatives in the individual causality assessment of suspected adrs.
Can we rely on arterial line sampling in performing activated plasma thromboplastin time after cardiac surgery? [SEP] can we rely on arterial line sampling in performing activated plasma thromboplastin time after cardiac surgery? arterial catheters are routinely used to sample blood for clotting studies in most cardiothoracic intensive care units. the clotting profile in surgical bleeding after cardiac surgery influences further management. aspiration and discard of a certain amount of blood from the line, prior to sampling, are assumed to clear heparin contamination. we have investigated this assumption through analysis of the clotting profile by simultaneous arterial line and peripheral venous samples. the morning following cardiac surgery, simultaneous arterial line and peripheral venous blood samples were taken for activated plasma thromboplastin time (aptt) ratio and international normalized ratio (inr) in 49 randomly selected patients. a survey of 22 uk cardiothoracic intensive care units was carried out to determine the practice for the withdrawal of blood for clotting studies. heparin contamination was confirmed by teg which revealed that the r-value for arterial catheter blood samples without heparinase in the cup was higher (406.00 +/- 64.44 s) compared with the value for arterial samples with heparinase in the cup (318.28 +/- 47.26s, p < 0.05). the survey of 22 uk cardiothoracic intensive care units showed that heparinized arterial lines were by far the commonest ports used for blood withdrawal for the measurement of aptt ratio results. samples withdrawn from heparinized arterial lines cannot be relied upon for aptt ratio results.
Clinician assessment for acute chest syndrome in febrile patients with sickle cell disease: is it accurate enough? [SEP] clinician assessment for acute chest syndrome in febrile patients with sickle cell disease: is it accurate enough? to determine whether the use of empiric chest radiography (cxr) is of significant value in detecting clinically unsuspected acute chest syndrome (acs) in febrile patients with sickle cell disease (scd). patients with scd presenting to the emergency department and hematology clinic with temperature greater than or equal to 38 degrees c were prospectively evaluated using a physician-completed questionnaire. the questionnaire included inquiries into the patient's physical signs and symptoms and the physician's clinical impression for the presence of acs. seventy-three patients with scd with 96 febrile events were evaluated over a 1-year period. on the basis of the questionnaire data, 61% (14/23) of acs cases were not clinically suspected by the evaluating physician before obtaining cxr. overall physician sensitivity for predicting acs was only 39%, and diagnostic accuracy did not improve significantly with increasing levels of pediatric training. acs is common in patients with scd who present with fever and was grossly underestimated by evaluating physicians. history and physical examination appear to be of little value in defining which febrile patients require cxr. in view of the mortality and morbidity associated with acs, empiric cxr should be considered when evaluating a febrile patient with scd.
Can multiple SNP testing in BRCA2 and BRCA1 female carriers be used to improve risk prediction models in conjunction with clinical assessment? [SEP] can multiple snp testing in brca2 and brca1 female carriers be used to improve risk prediction models in conjunction with clinical assessment? several single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) at different loci have been associated with breast cancer susceptibility, accounting for around 10% of the familial component. recent studies have found direct associations between specific snps and breast cancer in brca1/2 mutation carriers. our aim was to determine whether validated susceptibility snp scores improve the predictive ability of risk models in comparison/conjunction to other clinical/demographic information. female brca1/2 carriers were identified from the manchester genetic database, and included in the study regardless of breast cancer status or age. multivariable cox proportional hazards models were fit in the separate brca datasets and in menopausal stages screening different combinations of clinical/demographic/genetic variables. 548 female brca1 mutation carriers and 523 brca2 carriers were identified from the database. median kaplan-meier estimate of survival was 46.0 years (44.9-48.1) for brca1 carriers and 48.9 (47.3-50.4) for brca2. 0.018) for brca2 carriers. we found improvement in prediction performance when coupling the genetic snp score with clinical/demographic markers, which warrants further investigation.
Does a special interest in laparoscopy affect the treatment of acute cholecystitis? [SEP] is the presence of a catheter and time of surgery effective in conversion to open surgery in interval cholecystectomies after percutaneous drainage in acute cholecystitis? in total, 50 patients with acute cholecystitis who underwent interval laparoscopic cholecystectomy after percutaneous drainage were retrospectively evaluated and grouped according to conversion to open surgery (group 1) and non (group 2). impact of surgical timing on postoperative quality of life in acute cholecystitis: a comparative analysis of early, intermediate, and delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy. this study aimed to evaluate the impact of early, intermediate, and delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy on postoperative quality of life (qol) in patients with acute cholecystitis. early laparoscopic cholecystectomy significantly improves postoperative qol compared to intermediate surgery. does operative time affect complication rate in laparoscopic cholecystectomy. laparoscopic cholecystectomy appears to be less morbid than open cholecystectomy. is early laparoscopic cholecystectomy after clearance of common bile duct stones by endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography superior? long-term patient-reported outcomes following laparoscopic cholecystectomy: a prospective multicenter observational study. patients with acute cholecystitis amenable for acute laparoscopic cholecystectomy were randomly assigned to either pap (piperacillin/ tazobactam) or placebo, and the subsequent clinical course was followed.
Can progression of valvar aortic stenosis be predicted accurately? [SEP] can progression of valvar aortic stenosis be predicted accurately? it was the aim of the present study to elaborate criteria for the assessment of rapid hemodynamic progression of valvar aortic stenosis. these criteria are of special importance when cardiac surgery is indicated for other reasons but the established criteria for aortic valve replacement are not yet fulfilled. such aspects of therapeutic planing were mostly disregarded in the past so that patients had to undergo cardiac reoperation within a few years. hemodynamic, echocardiographic, and clinical data of 169 men and 88 women with aortic stenosis, aged 55.2 +/- 15.7 years at their first and 63.4 +/- 15.6 years at their second cardiac catheterization, were analyzed. the progression rate of aortic valve obstruction was found to be dependent on the degree of valvar calcification ([vc] scoring 0 to iii) and to be exponentially correlated with the aortic valve opening area (ava) at initial catheterization. neither age nor sex of the patient nor etiology of the valvar obstruction significantly influence the progression of aortic stenosis. if ava decreases below 0.75 cm(2) with a present degree of vc = 0, or ava of 0.8 with vc of i, ava of 0.9 with vc of ii, or ava of 1.0 with vc of iii, it is probable that aortic stenosis will have to be operated upon in the following years. the present data indicate that for clinical purposes and planning of valvar surgery the progression of asymptomatic aortic stenosis can be sufficiently predicted by the present aortic valve opening area and the degree of valvar calcification.
Does automatic transmission improve driving behavior in older drivers? [SEP] does automatic transmission improve driving behavior in older drivers? most older drivers continue to drive as they age. to maintain safe and independent transport, mobility is important for all individuals, but especially for older drivers. the objective of this study was to investigate whether automatic transmission, compared with manual transmission, may improve the driving behavior of older drivers. in total, 31 older drivers (mean age 75.2 years) and 32 younger drivers - used as a control group (mean age 39.2 years) - were assessed twice on the same fixed route; once in a car with manual transmission and once in a car with automatic transmission. the driving behavior was assessed with the ryd on-road assessment driving protocol. time to completion of left turns (right-hand side driving) and the impact of a distraction task were measured. the older group had more driving errors than the younger group, in both the manual and the automatic transmission car. however, and contrary to the younger drivers, automatic transmission improved the older participants' driving behavior as demonstrated by safer speed adjustment in urban areas, greater maneuvering skills, safer lane position and driving in accordance with the speed regulations. switching to automatic transmission may be recommended for older drivers as a means to maintain safe driving and thereby the quality of their transport mobility.
Birth characteristics and risk of low intellectual performance in early adulthood: are the associations confounded by socioeconomic factors in adolescence or familial effects? [SEP] work-family conflict and sleep quality each independently mediated the relationship between work time pressure and burnout. in addition, a significant serial mediating effect was observed, indicating that higher time pressure was associated with increased work-family conflict, which in turn was related to poorer sleep quality and subsequently higher levels of burnout. work-family conflict and sleep quality play both independent and sequential mediating roles in this relationship. prevalence of overweight, obesity and central adiposity among grade seven adolescents in urban tshwane, south africa. to assess and describe the prevalence of overweight, obesity and central adiposity in grade seven adolescents in urban tshwane, south africa, and explore its association with socioeconomic characteristics. socioeconomic status was assessed using the validated family affluence scale. household income was significantly associated with obesity ( the high prevalence of excess adiposity, particularly among female adolescents, indicates an emerging cardiometabolic risk profile among the group. this study addresses a critical gap in south african public health literature by providing locally specific, disaggregated data on the nutritional status of urban adolescents in tshwane, a cohort that is underrepresented in contrast to conventional rural or national surveys. apoe-ε4 moderates the association between diet quality and executive function in middle-aged women at increased risk for alzheimer's disease. we examined whether diet quality is associated with executive function (ef) in middle-aged women with a family history of alzheimer's disease (ad) and whether this is moderated by a genetic ad risk factor, apoe-ε4 allele carriage.
Is scintigraphy a guideline method in determining amputation levels in diabetic foot? [SEP] is scintigraphy a guideline method in determining amputation levels in diabetic foot? in this study, we aimed to evaluate the potential use of a 3-phase bone scintigraphy method to determine the level of amputation on treatment cost, morbidity and mortality, reamputation rates, and the duration of hospitalization in diabetic foot. thirty patients who were admitted to our clinic between september 2008 and july 2009, with diabetic foot were included. all patients were evaluated according to age, gender, diabetes duration, 3-phase bone scintigraphy, doppler ultrasound, amputation/reamputation levels, and hospitalization periods. patients underwent 3-phase bone scintigraphy using technetium-99m methylene diphosphonate, and the most distal site of the region displaying perfusion during the perfusion and early blood flow phase was marked as the amputation level. amputation level was determined by 3-phase bone scintigraphy, doppler ultrasound, and inspection of the infection-free clear region during surgery. the amputation levels of the patients were as follows: finger in six (20%), ray amputation in five (16.6%), transmetatarsal in one (3.3%), lisfranc in two (6.6%), chopart in seven (23.3%), syme in one (3.3%), below-the-knee in six (20%), above the knee in one (3.3%), knee disarticulation in one (3.3%), and two patients underwent amputation at other centers. after primary amputation, reamputation was performed on seven patients, and one patient was treated with debridement for wound site problems. we conclude that 3-phase bone scintigraphy prior to surgery could be a useful method to determine the amputation level in a diabetic foot. we conclude that further, comparative, more comprehensive, long-term, and controlled studies are required.
Improvements in survival of gynaecological cancer in the Anglia region of England: are these an effect of centralisation of care and use of multidisciplinary management? [SEP] improvements in survival of gynaecological cancer in the anglia region of england: are these an effect of centralisation of care and use of multidisciplinary management? our hypothesis is that the adoption of department of health (dh) guidance has led to an improvement in outcome in gynaecological cancer survival. in 1999 the dh in england introduced the improving outcomes in gynaecological cancer guidance, advising case management by multidisciplinary teams with surgical concentration in specialist hospitals. this guidance was rapidly adopted in the east of england, with a population of 2.5 million. the population of the anglia cancer network was approximately 2.3 million. from 1996 to 2003, details of 3406 cases of gynaecological cancer were identified in the anglia region of england. primary endpoint was survival. the survival rates for cases diagnosed between 1996 and 1999 were broadly the same across the time period, with a marked improvement taking place in 2000, and continuing to 2003 (hr 0.71, 95% ci 0.64-0.79, comparing 2000-03 with 1996-99 diagnoses), for all gynaecological sites combined. there was a concurrent change towards major surgery being performed in specialist centres from 2000. the adoption of the 1999 guidance on gynaecological cancer, which included multidisciplinary case management and centralisation of surgery, resulted in a marked step-change improvement in survival of gynaecological cancer in an area of eastern england in 2000.
Do symptoms matter when considering patients for phase I clinical trials? [SEP] eligible patients with any systemic anti-cancer therapy (sact) after the ansclc diagnosis were identified from the electronic medical records of three tertiary medical institutions. in this open label, 3 + 3 trial design, cisplatin and berzosertib were administered intravenously on day 1 (d1) and d8, and d2 and d9, respectively, together with twice-daily oral veliparib on d1-d3 and d8-d10 in 21-day cycles. fifty-three patients enrolled with 46 evaluable for response (41 with measurable disease). selpercatinib in  libretto-001 (clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct03157128) is a registrational phase i/ii, single-arm, open-label trial of selpercatinib in ret-dependent cancers. a randomized trial of nivo + ipi versus nivo monotherapy is warranted. botensilimab (fc-enhanced anti-cytotoxic lymphocyte-association protein-4 antibody) plus balstilimab (anti-pd-1 antibody) in patients with relapsed/refractory metastatic sarcomas. the purpose of this phase i study was to define the safety and efficacy of botensilimab (bot), an fc-enhanced anti-cytotoxic lymphocyte-association protein-4 antibody, plus balstilimab (bal), an anti-pd-1 antibody, in advanced sarcomas. exploratory end points include assessing patient biomarkers including tumor mutational burden, cytokines, and pd-l1 expression. phase i/ib trial of inavolisib plus palbociclib and endocrine therapy for  to investigate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (pk), and preliminary antitumor activity of inavolisib, a potent and selective small-molecule inhibitor of p110α that promotes the degradation of mutated p110α, in combination with palbociclib and endocrine therapy (et), in a phase i/ib study in patients with  women ≥18 years of age received inavolisib, palbociclib, and letrozole (inavo + palbo + letro arm) or fulvestrant (inavo + palbo + fulv arm) until unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. treatment-related adverse events (traes) occurred in all patients; the most frequent were stomatitis, hyperglycemia, and diarrhea; grade ≥3 any trae rates were 87.9% and 85.0%; 6.1% and 10.0% discontinued any treatment due to traes in the inavo + palbo + letro and inavo + palbo + fulv arms, respectively.
Do episodic migraineurs selectively attend to headache-related visual stimuli? [SEP] do episodic migraineurs selectively attend to headache-related visual stimuli? to assess pain-related attentional biases among individuals with episodic migraine. prior studies have examined whether chronic pain patients selectively attend to pain-related stimuli in the environment, but these studies have produced largely mixed findings and focused primarily on patients with chronic musculoskeletal pain. limited research has implicated attentional biases among chronic headache patients, but no studies have been conducted among episodic migraineurs, who comprise the overwhelming majority of the migraine population. three hundred and eight participants (mean age = 19.2 years [standard deviation = 3.3]; 69.5% female; 36.4% minority), consisting of 84 episodic migraineurs, diagnosed in accordance with international classification of headache disorders (2(nd) edition) criteria using a structured diagnostic interview, and 224 non-migraine controls completed a computerized dot probe task to assess attentional bias toward headache-related pictorial stimuli. the task consisted of 192 trials and utilized 2 emotional-neutral stimulus pairing conditions (headache-neutral and happy-neutral). no within-group differences for reaction time latencies to headache vs happy conditions were found among those with episodic migraine or among the non-migraine controls. migraine status was unrelated to attentional bias indices for both headache (f [1,306] = 0.56, p = .45) and happy facial stimuli (f [1,306] = 0.37, p = .54), indicating a lack of between-group differences. in light of the large sample size and prior pilot testing of presented images, results suggest that episodic migraineurs do not differentially attend to headache-related facial stimuli. given modest evidence of attentional biases among chronic headache samples, these findings suggest potential differences in attentional processing between chronic and episodic headache subforms.
Mitral replacement or repair for functional mitral regurgitation in dilated and ischemic cardiomyopathy: is it really the same? [SEP] formula-based relocation of the papillary muscle in patients with ischemic mitral regurgitation. three patients died and 1 underwent mitral valve replacement during follow-up (71 [sd, 35] months), but imr was well controlled, and left ventricular reverse remodeling and improved left ventricular function was observed in the other 6. clinical outcomes of first-time and redo mitral valve replacement using mitris resilia bioprosthesis. we conducted a retrospective multicenter study of 140 patients (mean age, 75 ± 8 years; 44% male) who underwent first-time (n = 100) or redo (n = 40) mitral valve replacement (mvr) with a mitris resilia valve between 2021 and 2022. the primary indication for first-time mvr was mitral regurgitation, followed by mitral stenosis, whereas that for redo mvr was prosthetic valve dysfunction, followed by failed repair. both groups showed sustained reductions in left atrial size and tricuspid regurgitation pressure gradient, accompanied by parallel improvements in new york heart association functional class (all time effect  first-time and redo mvr with the mitris resilia valve was associated with low perioperative mortality, favorable safety, and durable hemodynamic performance. hemopericardium due to atrioventricular disruption after mitral valve replacement with nonemergent left ventricular pseudoaneurysm repair. midterm echocardiographic outcomes of minimally invasive mitral valve surgery in patients with previous cardiac surgery. primary outcomes included postoperative complications, all-cause mortality, and rates of grade 3 to 4 mitral regurgitation at follow-up. transoesophageal echocardiogram diagnosed an absent mechanical mitral valve leaflet and severe mitral regurgitation for which the patient successfully underwent urgent mitral valve replacement.
Do nontriploid partial hydatidiform moles exist? [SEP] do nontriploid partial hydatidiform moles exist? to study whether nontriploid partial hydatidiform moles truly exist. we conducted a reevaluation of pathology and ploidy in 19 putative nontriploid partial hydatidiform moles using standardized histologic diagnostic criteria and repeat flow cytometric testing by the hedley technique. on review of the 19 moles, 53% (10/19) were diploid nonpartial moles (initially pathologically misclassified), and 37% (7/19) were triploid partial moles (initial ploidy misclassifications). one additional case (5%) was a diploid early complete mole (initially pathologically misclassified). nontriploid partial moles probably do not exist: careful reevaluation of putative specimens will probably uncover pathologic or ploid errors in almost all cases. morphology and dna content analysis in the evaluation of first trimester placentas for partial hydatidiform mole (phm). partial hydatidiform moles (phm) have defined villous abnormalities and are usually triploid. their diagnosis often can be made by morphology alone, without confirmation of ploidy, but considerable interobserver variability exists. nontriploid avms displayed at most 2 of the diagnostic features of phm.
Is cholecystectomy really an indication for concomitant splenectomy in mild hereditary spherocytosis? [SEP] guidelines for the diagnosis and management of hereditary spherocytosis--2011 update. guidelines on hereditary spherocytosis (hs) published in 2004 (bolton-maggs et al, 2004) are here replaced to reflect changes in current opinion on the surgical management, (particularly the indications for concomitant splenectomy with cholecystectomy in children with mild hs, and concomitant cholecystectomy with splenectomy in those with asymptomatic gallstones). is cholecystectomy really an indication for concomitant splenectomy in mild hereditary spherocytosis? the british committee for standards in haematology currently recommends concomitant splenectomy in children with mild hereditary spherocytosis (hs) undergoing cholecystectomy for symptomatic gallstones. the aim of this study was to audit the outcome of the practice of uncoupling splenectomy and cholecystectomy in such patients. during this period, the policy was to undertake concomitant splenectomy only if indicated for haematological reasons and not simply because of planned cholecystectomy. three patients subsequently required a splenectomy for haematological reasons 0.8-2.5 years after cholecystectomy; all three splenectomies were performed laparoscopically. the advice to perform a concomitant splenectomy in children with mild hs undergoing cholecystectomy for symptomatic gallstones needs revisiting. laparoscopic splenectomy in children: experience in a single institution. the indications for splenectomy were hereditary spherocytosis (n = 35), idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (n = 22), autoimmune hemolytic anemia (n = 3), and other diseases (n = 3).
Does surgery or radiation therapy impact survival for patients with extrapulmonary small cell cancers? [SEP] these findings support the use of next-generation sequencing to improve diagnostic outcomes in this vulnerable patient population. we aimed to assess 6-week cryo-compression on pain (including oxycodone consumption), function, and quality of life (qol) at 6 weeks following uka compared with standard care. 6-week cryo-compression following uka demonstrated no differences in pain at rest or functional and qol-related outcomes. external validation of machine learning models for estimation of mortality 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after hip fracture on 5,055 consecutive patients. 2024) were deployed to estimate mortality at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months. adjuvant radiation therapy is associated with a near five-fold increase in fjf stricture; this concern recedes in salvage cases. flap selection requires balancing fistula risk against perioperative mortality and donor-site morbidity, modified by defect extent, thigh adiposity, anticipated radiation therapy, and institutional experience. this review summarizes current evidence for prophylactic and therapeutic scar management techniques relevant to ear, nose, and throat surgeons, covering risk stratification, wound closure principles, dressings, intralesional agents, laser therapy, radiation, and adjunctive treatments. while established therapies are further validated, emerging combination approaches and novel adjuncts are broadening the therapeutic treatment repertoire. key areas of progress include non-invasive dressing products, intralesional pharmacotherapy, energy-based devices, and radiation protocols, though significant gaps in high-quality evidence particularly for the head and neck region is an ongoing issue.
MR Diagnosis of Bone Metastases at 1.5 T and 3 T: Can STIR Imaging Be Omitted? [SEP] 
Histologic evaluation of the testicular remnant associated with the vanishing testes syndrome: is surgical management necessary? [SEP] histologic evaluation of the testicular remnant associated with the vanishing testes syndrome: is surgical management necessary? there is controversy surrounding the optimal management of the testicular remnant associated with the vanishing testes syndrome. some urologists advocate the need for surgical exploration, whereas others believe this is unnecessary. these differing opinions are based on the variable reports of viable germ cell elements found within the testicular remnants. to better understand the pathology associated with this syndrome and the need for surgical management, we reviewed our experience regarding the incidence of viable germ cell elements within the testicular remnant. an institutional review board-approved, retrospective review was performed of all consecutive patients undergoing exploration for a nonpalpable testis at eastern virginia medical school and geisinger medical center between 1994 and 2006. patients who were found to have spermatic vessels and a vas deferens exiting a closed internal inguinal ring were included in this analysis. fifty-six patients underwent removal of the testicular remnant. in an additional 4 patients (7%), we identified seminiferous tubules without germ cell elements. in our review, we identified that a significant number of testicular remnants associated with the vanishing testes syndrome can harbor viable germ cell elements or seminiferous tubules.
Does pain intensity predict a poor opioid response in cancer patients? [SEP] risk for opioid misuse among emergency department cancer patients. the authors determined the risk for opioid misuse among ed cancer patients with pain and assessed demographic and clinical factors associated with increased misuse risk. the risk of opioid misuse among cancer patients is substantial. pain is one of the most common symptoms in patients suffering from advanced cancer and receiving palliative care and is often responsible for a poor quality of life. our results provide preliminary evidence of a significant correlation of pain relief in patients with cancer and at least 5 cytokines. does pain intensity predict a poor opioid response in cancer patients? the aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that initial pain intensity is not a predictive factor of poor opioid response in advanced cancer patients, as suggested by a recent work. a prospective study was carried out on a cohort of consecutive cancer patients who were receiving opioids but had an unacceptable balance between analgesia and adverse effects, despite symptomatic treatment of side effects. intensity of pain and symptoms associated with opioid therapy were recorded. opioid switching was an effective method to improve the balance between analgesia and adverse effects in more than 80% of cancer patients with a poor response to an opioid.
Do prerecorded lecture VODcasts affect lecture attendance of first-yearpre-clinical Graduate Entry to Medicine students? [SEP] do prerecorded lecture vodcasts affect lecture attendance of first-yearpre-clinical graduate entry to medicine students? there is increasing concern amongst educators that the provision of recorded lectures may reduce student attendance of live lectures. we therefore sought to determine if the provision of prerecorded lecture video podcasts (vodcasts) to first-year graduate entry to medicine (gem) students, affected attendance at 21 physiology lectures within three separate pre-clinical modules. data on lecture attendance, utilization of vodcasts, and whether vodcasts should replace live lectures were drawn from three surveys conducted in academic years 2014-2015 and 2015-2016 on all first-year gem students in two first-year pre-clinical modules where prerecorded physiology vodcasts were available for viewing or downloading prior to scheduled live lectures. a total of 191/214 (89%) students responded to the three surveys, with 84.3% of students attending all 21 lectures in the study. only 4% of students missed more than one lecture in each of the three lecture series, with 79% indicating that vodcasts should not replace lectures. therefore, we conclude that the attendance of pre-clinical gem students at live lectures is not significantly impacted upon by the provision of lecture vodcasts, with most students viewing them as useful revision tools rather than as a replacement for live lectures.
Is there an intrauterine influence on obesity? [SEP] we conducted exploratory analyses to evaluate effect modification by race/ethnicity, pre-pregnancy obesity, and fetal sex. maternal cdkal1 polygenic risk scores identify offspring at increased risk for divergent growth trajectories, persistent lean and obesity phenotypes, through pathways independent of clinically diagnosed gestational diabetes. findings reinforce the thrifty genotype hypothesis, suggesting a context-dependent metabolic programming in which maternal genetic variation influences fetal growth adaptation to intrauterine nutrient availability. targeted proteomics reveal association between maternal biomarkers and child body weight in the first year of life. the intrauterine environment strongly influences children's health and development. distinct cardiovascular biomarkers have been linked to birth weight and later weight gain, with correlations observed in maternal and umbilical cord serum. to describe (1) maternal cardiovascular biomarker patterns during the second and third trimesters and (2) potential associations between these biomarkers and offspring weight at birth and at 1 year of age. children exposed to zikv had a higher prevalence of low hdl-c compared with unexposed peers (54.6% vs. 29.0%;  intrauterine zikv exposure influences the relationship between adiposity and lipid profile in children. early metabolic events during the intrauterine period can increase susceptibility to chronic diseases in adulthood. fetal and neonatal nutrition rich in sugars may lead to disorders such as obesity, insulin resistance, and diabetes.
Assessing Patient Reported Outcomes Measures via Phone Interviews Versus Patient Self-Survey in the Clinic: Are We Measuring the Same Thing? [SEP] assessing patient reported outcomes measures via phone interviews versus patient self-survey in the clinic: are we measuring the same thing? longitudinally following patients requires a full-time employee (fte)-dependent data inflow infrastructure. there are efforts to capture patient-reported outcomes (pros) by the use of non-fte-dependent methodologies. in this study, we set out to assess the reliability of pro data captured via fte-dependent compared with non-fte-dependent methodologies. a total of 119 adult patients (65 men) who underwent 1-and 2-level lumbar fusions at duke university medical center were enrolled in this prospective study. all patients completed 2 sets of questionnaires--the first a phone interviews and the second a self-survey. there was at least a 2-week period between the phone interviews and self-survey. questionnaires included the oswestry disability index (odi), the visual analog scale for back pain (vas-bp), and the visual analog scale for leg pain (vas-lp). repeated-measures analysis of variance was used to compare the reliability of baseline pro data captured. a total of 39.49% of patients were smokers, 21.00% had diabetes, and 11.76% had coronary artery disease; 26.89% reported history of anxiety disorder, and 28.57% reported history of depression.
Is cytokeratin immunoreactivity useful in the diagnosis of short-segment Barrett's oesophagus in Korea? [SEP] is cytokeratin immunoreactivity useful in the diagnosis of short-segment barrett's oesophagus in korea? cytokeratin 7/20 staining has been reported to be helpful in diagnosing barrett's oesophagus and gastric intestinal metaplasia. to determine the diagnostic usefulness of cytokeratin 7/20 immunostaining for short-segment barrett's oesophagus in korea. in patients with barrett's oesophagus, diagnosed endoscopically, at least two biopsy specimens were taken from just below the squamocolumnar junction. if goblet cells were found histologically with alcian blue staining, cytokeratin 7/20 immunohistochemical stains were performed. intestinal metaplasia at the cardia was diagnosed whenever biopsy specimens taken from within 2 cm below the oesophagogastric junction revealed intestinal metaplasia. barrett's cytokeratin 7/20 pattern was defined as cytokeratin 20 positivity in only the superficial gland, combined with cytokeratin 7 positivity in both the superficial and deep glands. barrett's cytokeratin 7/20 pattern was observed in 28 out of 36 cases (77.8%) with short-segment barrett's oesophagus, 11 out of 28 cases (39.3%) with intestinal metaplasia at the cardia, and nine out of 61 cases (14.8%) with gastric intestinal metaplasia. the sensitivity and specificity of barrett's cytokeratin 7/20 pattern were 77.8 and 77.5%, respectively. barrett's cytokeratin 7/20 pattern can be a useful marker for the diagnosis of short-segment barrett's oesophagus, although the false positive or false negative rate is approximately 25%.
Is routine dissection of the station 9 lymph nodes really necessary for primary lung cancer? [SEP] is routine dissection of the station 9 lymph nodes really necessary for primary lung cancer? mediastinal lymph node dissection is an essential component of lung cancer surgery; however, choosing mediastinal lymph nodes stations to be dissected is subjective. we carried out this research to investigate the need for dissection of station 9 lymph nodes during lung cancer surgery. the metastasis rate of station 9 lymph nodes was significantly lower than other mediastinal stations in lung cancer patients. routine dissection of station 9 lymph nodes may not be necessary, especially in patients with a low t stage, upper or middle lobe tumors, or without intrapulmonary lymph node metastasis. [exploration of lymph node metastasis and appropriate lymph node dissection modes in patients with clinical stage i non-small cell lung cancer]. to explore the pattern of lymph node metastasis and evaluate the modes and extent of mediastinal lymph node dissection in patients with ≤ 3 cm, clinical stage i primary non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc). data of 270 eligible patients who underwent pulmonary resection with systematic lymph node dissection in our hospital between march 2012 and august 2013 were retrospectively analyzed in order to investigate the relationship between the clinicopathological features and lymph node metastatic patterns. intraoperative frozen-section examination of the lobe-specific lymph nodes should be performed routinely in patients with ≤ 2 cm stage i nsclc, and systematic nodal dissection should be done if positive, but it may be not necessary if negative. however, the effectiveness of the systematic selective lymph node dissection still needs to be further confirmed.
Marital status, living arrangement and mortality: does the association vary by gender? [SEP] marital status, living arrangement and mortality: does the association vary by gender? however, there is some uncertainty about gender differences in mortality risks in older individuals, widowed, divorced and single individuals and about the impact of living arrangements. all-cause mortality hrs for marital status and living arrangements were estimated by cox regression for men and women and different age groups with adjustment for education and socio-professional category. the benefit of being married was stronger for men than for women; however, mortality patterns were similar, with higher mortality in divorced and single individuals compared with widowed individuals (<80 years). stratification by living arrangement revealed that mortality risks were highest for 45-64-year-old divorced (hr 1.72 (95% ci 1.67 to 1.76)) and single men (hr 1.67 (95% ci 1.63 to 1.71)) who lived alone. in women of the same age, the highest mortality risk was observed for those who were single and living with a partner (hr 1.70 (95% ci 1.58 to 1.82)). evaluation of living arrangements is crucial for identifying and explaining gender differences in mortality risks by marital status. this study aims to (1) examine the association of living arrangements and health among oldest-old chinese, and (2) investigate gender differences in the association of living arrangements and health. using multinomial logistic regression, we found that baseline living arrangements are significantly associated with mortality, activities of daily living (adl) disability, and self-rated health at wave 2, controlling for baseline health, sociodemographic characteristics and availability of children. further, the linkages between living arrangements and mortality vary by gender.
Does somatostatin confer insulinostatic effects of neuromedin u in the rat pancreas? [SEP] does somatostatin confer insulinostatic effects of neuromedin u in the rat pancreas? aim of our current study is to investigate the role of somatostatin at mediating the effects of nmu on insulin secretion. insulin and somatostatin secretion from in situ perfused rat pancreas and isolated pancreatic islets was measured by radioimmunoassay. the paracrine effects of somatostatin within pancreatic islets were blocked by cyclosomatostatin, a somatostatin receptor antagonist. neuromedin u reduced insulin secretion from in situ perfused rat pancreas and stimulated somatostatin secretion from isolated pancreatic islets. neuromedin u stimulated somatostatin secretion at both physiological and supraphysiological glucose concentrations. cyclosomatostatin increased insulin secretion and reduced nmu-induced inhibition of insulin secretion. neuromedin u reduces insulin and increases somatostatin secretion. blockade of somatostatin action abolishes the inhibition of insulin secretion by nmu. the results of the study suggest that somatostatin mediates the inhibitory action of nmu on insulin secretion.
Kell alloimmunization in pregnancy: associated with fetal thrombocytopenia? [SEP] kell alloimmunization in pregnancy: associated with fetal thrombocytopenia? kell haemolytic disease in pregnancies has been suggested to be associated with decreased fetal platelet counts. the aim of this study was to evaluate the incidence and clinical significance of fetal thrombocytopenia in pregnancies complicated by kell alloimmunization. in this retrospective cohort study, fetal platelet counts were performed in 42 pregnancies with severe kell alloimmunization prior to the first intrauterine blood transfusion. platelet counts from 318 first intrauterine transfusions in rhd alloimmunized pregnancies were used as controls. fetal thrombocytopenia (platelet count < 150 x 10(9)/l) was found in 4/42 (10%) in the kell group and in 84/318 (26%) in the rhd group. none of the fetuses in the kell alloimmunized pregnancies, including 15 with severe hydrops, had a clinically significant thrombocytopenia defined as a platelet count < 50 x 10(9)/l. in the rhd alloimmunized pregnancies, 2/230 (1%) of the non-hydropic fetuses and 7/30 (23%) of the severely hydropic fetuses had a clinically significant thrombocytopenia. in contrast to fetuses with severe anaemia and hydrops due to rhd alloimmunization, fetuses with severe anaemia due to kell alloimmunization are generally not at risk for substantial thrombocytopenia.
Application of computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) in MR-mammography (MRM): do we really need whole lesion time curve distribution analysis? [SEP] application of computer-aided diagnosis (cad) in mr-mammography (mrm): do we really need whole lesion time curve distribution analysis? the identification of the most suspect enhancing part of a lesion is regarded as a major diagnostic criterion in dynamic magnetic resonance mammography. computer-aided diagnosis (cad) software allows the semi-automatic analysis of the kinetic characteristics of complete enhancing lesions, providing additional information about lesion vasculature. consecutive patients from routine diagnostic studies (1.5 t, 0.1 mmol gadopentetate dimeglumine, dynamic gradient-echo sequences at 1-minute intervals) were analyzed prospectively using cad. curve types were classified by initial signal increase (not significant, intermediate, and strong) and the delayed time course of signal intensity (continuous, plateau, and washout). lesion enhancement was measured using cad. the most suspect curve, the curve-type distribution percentage, and combined dynamic data were compared. on receiver-operating characteristic analysis, the most suspect curve showed diagnostic accuracy of 76.7 +/- 5%. with appropriate cutoff values, sensitivity and specificity, respectively, were found to be 80.4% and 72.7% for the most suspect curve, 76.1% and 83.6% for the curve-type distribution percentage, and 78.3% and 84.5% for both parameters. the integration of whole-lesion dynamic data tends to improve specificity.
Vaccine protection in the elderly: are Austrian seniors adequately protected by vaccinations? [SEP] [vaccine protection in the elderly: are austrian seniors adequately protected by vaccinations?]. the aim of the study was to evaluate, if elderly persons are sufficiently protected against infectious diseases by vaccination. 300 elderly (> 60 years) and 300 young (< 35 years) persons from five austrian cities were recruited according to the criteria of a field study. disease and vaccination histories were recorded. the results of the study demonstrate that protection against infectious diseases was frequently insufficient in the elderly. this was partly due to the fact that old persons were not vaccinated according to recommended strategies. however, low antibody concentration and a short duration of protective humoral immunity were also observed in many elderly persons in spite of regular vaccination. the data demonstrate that vaccination has a relatively weak and short-lasting effect in old age. the results of the study should stimulate discussions about strategies how vaccinations can be made more effective in old age. improved campaigns, shortened vaccination intervals as well as the design of novel vaccines tailored to fulfill the specific demands of the aging immune system are imaginable.
Vitamin D supplementation and regulatory T cells in apparently healthy subjects: vitamin D treatment for autoimmune diseases? [SEP] the effect of vitamin d supplementation on peripheral regulatory t cells and β cell function in healthy humans: a randomized controlled trial. increasing evidence supports the role of vitamin d (vitd) in modifying the risk to develop type 1 diabetes (t1d) and other autoimmune diseases. vitd3 might stimulate regulatory t cells (tregs), a central player in the maintenance of self-tolerance. vitamin d supplementation and regulatory t cells in apparently healthy subjects: vitamin d treatment for autoimmune diseases? epidemiological data show significant associations of vitamin d deficiency and autoimmune diseases. vitamin d may prevent autoimmunity by stimulating naturally occurring regulatory t cells. to elucidate whether vitamin d supplementation increases tregs frequency (%tregs) within circulating cd4+ t cells. vitamin d supplementation was associated with significantly increased %tregs in apparently healthy individuals. this immunomodulatory effect of vitamin d might underlie the associations of vitamin d deficiency and autoimmune diseases. hence, our finding provides a rationale for further studies to investigate vitamin d effects on autoimmunological processes.
Gynecological cancer alarm symptoms: is contact with specialist care associated with lifestyle and socioeconomic status? [SEP] gynecological cancer alarm symptoms: is contact with specialist care associated with lifestyle and socioeconomic status? the aim of this study was to determine the proportion of patients who were referred to specialist care after reporting gynecological cancer alarm symptoms to their general practitioner. we sought to investigate whether contact with specialist care was associated with lifestyle factors or socioeconomic status. a web-based questionnaire regarding gynecological alarm symptoms and lifestyle was distributed to the invited individuals. data about contact with specialist care were obtained from the national patient register and the national health insurance service registry, whereas information about socioeconomic status was collected from statistics denmark. main outcome measures were percentages of patients having contact with specialist care and odds ratios (ors) for associations between specialist care contact, lifestyle factors and socioeconomic status. the study included 25 866 nonpregnant women; 2957 reported the onset of at least one gynecological cancer alarm symptom, and 683 of these (23.1%) reported symptoms to their general practitioner. the proportion of individuals having contact with specialist care ranged from 39.3% (pain during intercourse) to 47.8% (bleeding during intercourse). individuals with higher educational level had significantly higher odds of contact with a specialist (or 1.86, 95% ci 1.17-2.95). educational level influences contact with specialist care among patients with gynecological cancer alarm symptoms.
Does elective re-siting of intravenous cannulae decrease peripheral thrombophlebitis? [SEP] does elective re-siting of intravenous cannulae decrease peripheral thrombophlebitis? a randomized controlled study. peripheral venous thrombophlebitis (pvt) is a common complication of intravenous cannulation, occurring in about 30% of patients. we evaluated the effect of elective re-siting of intravenous cannulae every 48 hours on the incidence and severity of pvt in patients receiving intravenous fluids/drugs. cannulae in the control group were removed only if the site became painful, the cannula got dislodged or there were signs and symptoms suggestive of pvt, namely pain, erythema, swelling, excessive warmth or a palpable venous cord. cannulae in the study group were changed and re-sited electively every 48 hours. all the patients were examined every 24 hours for signs and symptoms of pvt at the current and previous sites of infusion. the severity of pvt was also less in the study group compared with that in the control group. elective re-siting of intravenous cannulae every 48 hours results in a significant reduction in the incidence and severity of pvt. we recommend that this should be adopted as standard practice in managing all patients who require prolonged intravenous therapy.
Can third trimester ultrasound predict the presentation of the first twin at delivery? [SEP] can third trimester ultrasound predict the presentation of the first twin at delivery? to determine the ability of early sonogram to predict the presentation of twin a at birth. sonogram records were reviewed for the presentation of twin a at seven gestational age intervals and inpatient medical records were reviewed for the presentation of twin a at delivery. the positive predictive value, sensitivity, and specificity of presentation as determined by ultrasound, at each gestational age interval, for the same presentation at delivery were calculated. the positive predictive value of cephalic presentation of twin a as determined by ultrasound for the persistence of cephalic presentation at delivery reached 95% after 28 weeks gestation. the presentation of the first twin at delivery can be determined by sonogram by the 32nd week of gestation in over 90% of twin pregnancies. systematic labeling of twin pregnancies on ultrasound. the aim of this study was to describe a standard method of twin labeling in the first trimester of pregnancy and to assess the robustness of such a technique in predicting the presenting twin in subsequent scans and at delivery. this was a retrospective first-trimester study of all twin pregnancies assessed by ultrasonography at our center between 2000 and 2010. there were 108 discordant-sex twins scanned in the third trimester, of which the birth order changed in 20.3% that were delivered by cesarean section and in 5.9% of those delivered vaginally.
Risk factors for major depression during midlife among a community sample of women with and without prior major depression: are they the same or different? [SEP] eligible cohort studies and case series (≥4 patients) adopting es/gs as primary diagnostic tools were included. the meta-analysis included 26 es cohorts (2,205 individuals) and 22 gs cohorts (2,101 individuals). additional omics approaches have further expanded these insights, although larger and more integrative studies across multiple layers remain needed. environmental factors not only influence the onset of adhd but also shape its course and prognosis, with emerging evidence highlighting complex gene-environment correlations and interactions. together, the heterogeneity of findings across neuroimaging, genomic, and multi-omics studies underscores the importance of integrative approaches that embrace diversity across populations, methodologies, and biological systems. major purpose in life across generations: a categorical analysis across lifespan. understanding the major purposes that individuals identify as central to their lives is fundamental to psychosocial health and life satisfaction. this study examined how major life purposes vary across six generational cohorts using categorical analysis. a sample of 364 participants was interviewed to assess their major life purposes. results revealed statistically significant differences in life purpose distribution across generations, χ
Totally implantable venous access device placement by interventional radiologists: are prophylactic antibiotics necessary? [SEP] totally implantable venous access device placement by interventional radiologists: are prophylactic antibiotics necessary? to determine the rate of early infection for totally implantable venous access devices (tivads) placed without antibiotic prophylaxis. a list of patients who underwent tivad placement in 2009 was obtained from the patient archiving and communication system (pacs). this list was cross-referenced to all patients who underwent tivad removal from january 1, 2009, through january 30, 2010, to identify tivads that were removed within 30 days of placement. concurrent antibiotic therapy, chemotherapy, and laboratory data before and within 30 days of placement were recorded. clabsis occurred in seven (0.6%) patients within 30 days of placement. at the time of tivad placement, 81 (7%) patients were receiving antibiotics incidental to the procedure. one patient who received an antibiotic the day of implantation developed a clabsi. the rate of early infection without antibiotic prophylaxis before tivad placement in the interventional radiology suite is < 1%. based on these data, use of prophylactic antibiotics for tivad placement is not recommended.
Starting insulin in type 2 diabetes: continue oral hypoglycemic agents? [SEP] for type 2 diabetes, insulin therapy is recommended. evaluating the effectiveness of insulin plus oral medications versus oral anti-diabetes therapy alone in patients with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes with very high hba1c and acute coronary syndrome. early achievement of glycaemic control is of prime importance in such cases, and many guidelines recommend starting insulin together with oral anti-diabetic drugs (oad) as part of discharge medications. insulin treatment is usually needed at some point in the treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes and obesity to achieve the targeted glycemic control goal. she had been diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus 8 years earlier, which was treated with oral hypoglycemic medication. initiation of insulin therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes: an observational study. the aim of the study was to assess the initiation of insulin therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes using health claims data on prescription medicines. the study evaluated time to insulin initiation and prescribing patterns of other anti-diabetic medicines before and after insulin initiation. moreover, metformin and sulfonylureas were discontinued after insulin initiation in 26 and 37 % of patients, resp. more attention should be paid to the continuation of oral anti-diabetics, particularly metformin, after insulin initiation.
Clinical identifiers for early-stage primary/idiopathic adhesive capsulitis: are we seeing the real picture? [SEP] clinical identifiers for early-stage primary/idiopathic adhesive capsulitis: are we seeing the real picture? adhesive capsulitis is often difficult to diagnose in its early stage and to differentiate from other common shoulder disorders. the aim of this study was to validate any or all of the 8 clinical identifiers of early-stage primary/idiopathic adhesive capsulitis established in an earlier delphi study. sixty-four patients diagnosed with early-stage adhesive capsulitis by a physical therapist or medical practitioner were included in the study. eight active and 8 passive shoulder movements and visual analog scale pain scores for each movement were recorded prior to and immediately following an intra-articular injection of corticosteroid and local anesthetic. univariate logistic regression identified that of the proposed identifiers, global loss of passive range of movement (odds ratio [or]=0.26, p=.03), pain at the end of range of all measured active movements (or=0.06, p=.02), and global loss of passive glenohumeral movements (or=0.23, p=.02) were associated with a par. following stepwise removal of the variables, pain at the end of range of all measured active movements remained the only identifier but was associated with reduced odds of a par. the lack of a recognized reference standard for diagnosing early-stage adhesive capsulitis remains problematic in all related research. none of the clinical identifiers for early-stage adhesive capsulitis previously proposed by expert consensus have been validated in this study. clinicians should be aware that commonly used clinical identifiers may not be applicable to this stage.
Does delaying surgery in immature adolescent idiopathic scoliosis patients with progressive curve, lead to addition of fusion levels? [SEP] does delaying surgery in immature adolescent idiopathic scoliosis patients with progressive curve, lead to addition of fusion levels? to analyze the changes in the curve extent, pattern and the fusion level in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (ais) patients who undergo delayed surgery instead of early surgery. thirty-five immature ais patients whose radiographs demonstrated an initial primary curve of more than 40° with a subsequent increase of 10° before attaining skeletal maturity with brace were enrolled. the initial and the final radiographs taken before surgery were compared to assess the changes in curve extent, pattern and the fusion levels as recommended by king's, lenke's and suk's guidelines. the average age of 35 ais patients was 12.7 ± 1.6 years. the time interval between initial and final radiography was 39.3 ± 20.2 months and the degree of progress of the primary curve was 13 ± 9.7°. fusion levels changed in 33 (94.2%), 33 (94.2%) and 32 (91.4%) patients according to king's, lenke's and suk's guidelines, respectively. curve pattern was changed in 2 (5.7%), 12 (34.3%) and 10 (28.6) patients by king's, lenke's and suk's guidelines. the mean number of levels requiring fusion increased from 9.4 ± 2.1 at initial visit to 11.1 ± 1.8 at the final follow-up using king's guidelines, 9.7 ± 2.2-11.6 ± 2.0 as per lenke's guidelines and 9.1 ± 2.0-11.5 ± 2.3 when fusion was planned using suk's guidelines (p < 0.001 in all guidelines). delay of surgery in immature ais patients whose cobb's angle exceed 40° initially and showing subsequent progression of the curve, of more than 10° can lead to alterations in the curve pattern and the need for increase in fusion levels.
Do risk calculators accurately predict surgical site occurrences? [SEP] retrospective analysis of vascular surgery complication rates compared to commonly used risk index calculators. risk index calculator models are widely used to estimate perioperative risk of surgical procedures, directly impacting surgical planning and patient outcomes. this study assessed the accuracy of the national surgical quality improvement program surgical risk calculator (nsqip-src), revised cardiac risk index (rcri) calculator, and vascular quality initiative cardiac risk index (vqi-cri) calculators in predicting adverse event rates for common vascular procedures. preoperative data were entered into each calculator to produce a predicted risk of adverse events. updated calculators inclusive of modern vascular surgery procedural data may better capture accurate predictions of adverse events to best inform vascular surgical planning. this study aimed to assess the accuracy of the american college of surgeons risk calculator (acs-rc) by considering liver parenchyma quality and the type of liver resection. the acs-rc adequately predicted surgical site infection (brier score of 0.035), urinary tract infection (brier score of 0.038), and death (brier score of 0.046), and moderate accuracy was achieved for serious complications (brier score of 0.216) and overall complications (brier score of 0.180). a novel web-based risk calculator for predicting surgical site infection in hiv-positive facture patients: a multicenter cohort study in china. our study developed and validated a novel web-based risk calculator for predicting ssi risk in hiv-positive fracture patients undergoing surgery in china. in this study, we evaluated the predictability of the american college of surgeons national surgical quality improvement program surgical risk calculator (acs nsqip src) for various postoperative outcomes after spinal deformity surgery.
Can EMS Providers Provide Appropriate Tidal Volumes in a Simulated Adult-sized Patient with a Pediatric-sized Bag-Valve-Mask? [SEP] 
Can students' scores on preclerkship clinical performance examinations predict that they will fail a senior clinical performance examination? [SEP] 
Recovery Outcome Measures: Is There a Place for Culture, Attitudes, and Faith? [SEP] 
Can surgeon familiarization with current evidence lead to a change in practice? [SEP] can surgeon familiarization with current evidence lead to a change in practice? a prospective study. despite evidence against its utility, many surgeons continue to employ prophylactic nasogastric decompression in elective colonic resection. this study aimed to establish whether an easy and practical intervention, mailing out a summary of current evidence to surgeons, can change surgeons practice to bring it more in line with current evidence. the use of prophylactic nasogastric (ng) decompression in elective colonic resections was documented for the 2 consecutive months of october and november, 2004 at the royal alexandra hospital (rah). a one page summary of recent evidence concerning this practice was then mailed to all general surgeons at that institution. the two periods were compared with regards to prophylactic ng use. twenty two patients underwent elective colonic resections during the months of october and november, 2004. twenty one patients underwent such procedures in january and february, 2005. this study has shown that mailing out a summary of current evidence to surgeons concerning a certain issue is not sufficient to lead to a change in practice.
Advanced epithelial ovarian carcinoma in Thai women: should we continue to offer second-look laparotomy? [SEP] advanced epithelial ovarian carcinoma in thai women: should we continue to offer second-look laparotomy? to determine survival among patients with epithelial ovarian carcinoma (eoc) who underwent a second-look laparotomy (sll) and those refusing the procedure. also to analyze factor(s) influencing the survival of the patients. medical records were reviewed of patients with advanced eoc who were clinically free of disease after primary surgery and platinum-based chemotherapy between january 1, 1992, and december 31, 1998. after the median follow-up time of 35 months, 12 patients had died, and 5 patients were lost to follow-up. the median survival time for patients with sll was about 60 months. five-year survival rates of patients in the sll, and nsll groups were 37 per cent (95%ci = 7%-69%), and 88 per cent (95%ci = 65%-96%) respectively (p<0.001). by cox regression analysis, tumor grade was the only significant prognostic factor influencing patients' survival (hr = 6, 95%ci of hr = 1.2-34.2). the second-look laparotomy doesn't have a favorable impact on overall and disease-free survival. tumor grade is the only independent prognostic variable for survival of the patients.
Is high-sensitivity C-reactive protein associated with carotid atherosclerosis in healthy Koreans? [SEP] exploring the correlation between systemic inflammatory markers and carotid atherosclerosis indices in middle-aged adults: a cross-sectional study. this study investigated the association between atherosclerosis and systemic inflammation markers, specifically the c-reactive protein (crp), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (esr), neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (nlr), and platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio (plr), in healthy middle-aged adults. in males, the esr and crp were significantly correlated with the pn ( inflammatory markers, particularly the nlr and plr, demonstrate a correlation with carotid atherosclerosis. urine albumin creatinine ratio is associated with carotid atherosclerosis in a community based cohort: atherosclerosis risk of rural area in korean general population study. a useful predictor of early atherosclerosis in obese children: serum high-sensitivity c-reactive protein. high-sensitivity c-reactive protein (hs-crp) has recently emerged as a useful biomarker for vascular inflammation associated with atherosclerosis. is high-sensitivity c-reactive protein associated with carotid atherosclerosis in healthy koreans? there is a positive association between chronic inflammation and the risk of cardiovascular disease, but whether there is an association between c-reactive protein (crp) and carotid atherosclerosis is controversial. we investigated the relationship between high-sensitivity crp (hscrp) levels and carotid intima-media thickness (imt) in healthy koreans. both hscrp levels and the carotid imt were strongly correlated with conventional cardiovascular risk factors, but there was no independent association between hscrp levels and carotid imt in healthy korean adults.
Validation of the 2009 TNM version in a large multi-institutional cohort of patients treated for renal cell carcinoma: are further improvements needed? [SEP] 
Are interstitial fluid concentrations of meropenem equivalent to plasma concentrations in critically ill patients receiving continuous renal replacement therapy? [SEP] are interstitial fluid concentrations of meropenem equivalent to plasma concentrations in critically ill patients receiving continuous renal replacement therapy? to describe the interstitial fluid (isf) and plasma pharmacokinetics of meropenem in patients on continuous venovenous haemodiafiltration (cvvhdf). meropenem (500 mg) was administered every 8 h. cvvhdf was targeted as a 2-3 l/h exchange using a polyacrylonitrile filter with a surface area of 1.05 m2 and a blood flow rate of 200 ml/min. serial blood (pre- and post-filter), filtrate/dialysate and isf concentrations were measured on 2 days of treatment (profiles a and b). subcutaneous tissue isf concentrations were determined using microdialysis. during profile a, the comparative median (iqr) isf and plasma peak concentrations were 13.6 (12.0-16.8) and 40.7 (36.6-45.6) mg/l and the trough concentrations were 2.6 (2.4-3.4) and 4.9 (3.5-5.0) mg/l, respectively. meropenem isf penetration was estimated at 63% (60%-69%) and 69% (65%-74%) for profiles a and b, respectively, using comparative plasma and isf aucs. for profile a, the plasma elimination t1/2 was 3.7 (3.3-4.0) h, the volume of distribution was 0.35 (0.25-0.46) l/kg, the total clearance was 4.1 (4.1-4.8) l/h and the cvvhdf clearance was 2.9 (2.7-3.1) l/h. this is the first known report of concurrent plasma and isf concentrations of a meropenem antibiotic during cvvhdf. we observed that the isf concentrations of meropenem were significantly lower than the plasma concentrations, although the present dose was appropriate for infections caused by intermediately susceptible pathogens (mic≤4 mg/l).
Does Sensation Return to the Nasal Tip After Microfat Grafting? [SEP] 
Do older men benefit from curative therapy of localized prostate cancer? [SEP] prostate cancer in senior adults: over- or undertreated? senior adults with intermediate/high risk tumours and a life expectancy of >10 years may benefit from curative local therapy such as radical prostatectomy or combined external beam irradiation/androgen ablation therapy. [do older men with localized prostate cancer gleason 8-10 benefit from curative therapy?]. incidence of initial local therapy among men with lower-risk prostate cancer in the united states. the frequently indolent nature of early-stage prostate cancer in older men and in men with low- or moderate-grade tumors and the demonstration that the survival benefits of radical prostatectomy are primarily among men younger than 65 years have led to concerns about prostate cancer overtreatment. continued undertreatment of older men with localized prostate cancer. otherwise healthy men in their 70s and 80s with localized prostate cancer are often receiving watchful waiting and potentially losing valuable years of life. do older men benefit from curative therapy of localized prostate cancer? we estimated life expectancy (le) and quality-adjusted life expectancy (qale) associated with available treatments for localized prostate cancer in men aged >/= 65 years, adjusting for gleason score, patient preferences, and comorbidity. potentially curative therapy results in significantly improved le and qale for older men with few comorbidities and moderately or poorly differentiated localized prostate cancer.
Pituitary apoplexy: do histological features influence the clinical presentation and outcome? [SEP] pituitary apoplexy: correlation between magnetic resonance imaging and histopathological results. the aim of this study was to correlate the magnetic resonance (mr) imaging findings in pituitary apoplexy with histopathological results and determine whether the histopathology influences clinical presentation and outcome. the records of 36 patients with histologically confirmed pituitary apoplexy, who were treated surgically at the university of virginia health system between 1996 and 2006, were retrospectively reviewed. the clinical features and outcomes of the two histopathological groups were also compared. magnetic resonance imaging findings in the setting of pituitary apoplexy accurately predict the nature of the apoplectic process and help to guide the type and timing of therapy. pituitary apoplexy: do histological features influence the clinical presentation and outcome? a retrospective analysis of a contemporary series of patients with pituitary apoplexy was performed to ascertain whether the histopathological features influence the clinical presentation or the outcome. a retrospective analysis was performed in 59 patients treated for pituitary apoplexy at the university of virginia health system, charlottesville, virginia, or groote schuur hospital, university of cape town, south africa. the presenting symptoms, clinical features, endocrinological status, and outcome were compared between the two groups. the patients who presented with histological features of pituitary tumor infarction alone had less severe clinical features on presentation, a longer course prior to presentation, and a better outcome than those presenting with hemorrhagic infarction or frank hemorrhage.
Do African American women require fewer calories to maintain weight? [SEP] do african american women require fewer calories to maintain weight? the high prevalence of obesity in african american (aa) women may result, in part, from a lower resting metabolic rate (rmr) than non-aa women. if true, aa women should require fewer calories than non-aa women to maintain weight. our objective was to determine in the setting of a controlled feeding study, if aa women required fewer calories than non-aa women to maintain weight. calorie intake was adjusted during feeding to maintain stable weight. aa women had higher baseline weight and body mass index than non-aa women (78.4 vs 72.4 kg, p < .01; 29.0 vs 27.6 kg/m(2), p < .05, respectively). during intervention feeding, mean (sd) kcal was 2168 (293) in aa women and 2073 (284) in non-aa women. mean intake was 94.7 kcal higher in aa women than in non-aa women (p < .05). after adjustment for potential confounders, there was no difference in caloric intake between aa and non-aa women (δ = -2.8 kcal, p = .95). these results do not support the view that aa women are at greater risk for obesity because they require fewer calories to maintain weight.
Emergency double-balloon enteroscopy combined with real-time viewing of capsule endoscopy: a feasible combined approach in acute overt-obscure gastrointestinal bleeding? [SEP] emergency double-balloon enteroscopy combined with real-time viewing of capsule endoscopy: a feasible combined approach in acute overt-obscure gastrointestinal bleeding? there are few data concerning emergency double-balloon enteroscopy (dbe) and its usefulness in the management of severe acute obscure gastrointestinal bleeding (ogib). the aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate emergency dbe and capsule endoscopy (ce) in patients with overt ogib, analyzing the feasibility of this combined approach. emergency dbe in patients with overt ogib was defined as performance within 24 h of symptom onset. we reported 27 patients (16 men, mean age: 64.6 ± 17.9 years) with overt severe bleeding who underwent 29 emergency dbe (22 anterograde, 7 retrograde). of 27 patients, 16 (59.3%) underwent ce with real time (rt) viewing. we diagnosed 23 lesions amenable to endoscopic hemostasis and successfully treated 21 of them (77.8%). combined approach with rt viewing by ce correctly modified dbe management in four patients (25%). emergency dbe is feasible, safe and effective in acute ogib and may avoid major surgery, diagnosing and successfully treating most patients. combined approach with rt viewing by ce is especially useful to identify recurrent bleeding vascular lesions such as dl that may be easily misdiagnosed by non-emergency dbe.
Cardiopulmonary bypass temperature does not affect postoperative euthyroid sick syndrome? [SEP] correlations between intraparenchymal cerebral temperature and peripheral temperature monitoring sites during rewarming after deep hypothermic circulatory arrest on cardiopulmonary bypass. optimal anatomical sites for temperature monitoring that most closely correlates with cerebral temperature remain debated in cardiac surgery, particularly during cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) with deep hypothermic circulatory arrest (dhca) and subsequent rewarming. deep hypothermia reduces the predictive accuracy of the eleveld propofol model: population pharmacokinetic modelling in cardiac surgery. to evaluate the predictive performance of the eleveld target-controlled infusion model for propofol during deep hypothermia, characterise temperature-dependent changes in propofol pharmacokinetics, and explore the relationship between depth of anaesthesia monitoring and the perioperative stress response during deep hypothermic circulatory arrest. thirty adult patients undergoing elective pulmonary endarterectomy with cardiopulmonary bypass and deep hypothermic circulatory arrest. autonomic stress responses may occur despite profound cortical suppression, highlighting limitations of eeg-based depth of anaesthesia monitoring during deep hypothermic circulatory arrest. significant intra-op characteristics associated with ncd include lower intraoperative minimum temperature, more transfusion of blood products, and longer cpb and aortic cross-clamp time (all p < 0.05). a systematic review of how cardiopulmonary bypass parameters influence electroencephalogram signals. to systematically review the effects of temperature management, mean arterial pressure (map), hemodilution, anesthetic agents, embolization, and systemic inflammatory response during cpb on eeg parameters (including frequency bands, bispectral index (bis), quantitative eeg metrics such as burst suppression ratio (bsr), spectral edge frequency (sef), etc. (1) hypothermia: bis decreases linearly with temperature (≈1.12 units/°c); electrocerebral silence occurs during deep hypothermic circulatory arrest; eeg recovery dynamics during rewarming predict pod.
Body dysmorphic disorder: does it have a psychotic subtype? [SEP] body dysmorphic disorder: borderline category between neurosis and psychosis. [body dysmorphic disorder and psychosis. delusional disorder-somatic type (or body dysmorphic disorder) and schizophrenia: a case report. with regard to delusional disorder-somatic subtype there may be a relationship with body dysmorphic disorder. an update on body dysmorphic disorder. the present review provides an update on current research into body dysmorphic disorder. recent findings can be considered under four groupings: the classification of body dysmorphic disorder, its current inclusion under the somatoform disorders, and its relationship to obsessive compulsive disorder and other obsessive compulsive spectrum disorders; the psychotic 'variant' of body dysmorphic disorder, and whether it is simply a more severe form of the nonpsychotic type; the cognitive aspects of body dysmorphic disorder; and the treatment of body dysmorphic disorder, both in terms of pharmacological and psychological parameters. body dysmorphic disorder does not sit comfortably in the somatoform disorder category, and there is a good case for it being considered part of the obsessive compulsive spectrum, although it is not merely a subtype of obsessive compulsive disorder. [body dysmorphic disorder in psychiatric outpatients: diagnosis, other psychiatric diagnosis, demographic and clinical correlates]. body image disturbance in body dysmorphic disorder and eating disorders.
Does receipt of hospice care in nursing homes improve the management of pain at the end of life? [SEP] does receipt of hospice care in nursing homes improve the management of pain at the end of life? to compare analgesic management of daily pain for dying nursing home residents enrolled and not enrolled in medicare hospice. a subset of residents with daily pain near the end of life taken from a matched cohort of hospice (2,644) and nonhospice (7,929) nursing home residents who had at least two resident assessments (minimum data sets (mdss)) completed, their last between 1992 and 1996, and who died before april 1997. detailed drug use data contained on the last mds before death were used to examine analgesic management of daily pain. fifteen percent of hospice residents and 23% of nonhospice residents in daily pain received no analgesics (odds ratio (or) = 0.57, 95% confidence interval (ci) = 0.45-0.74). a lower proportion of hospice residents (21%) than of nonhospice residents (29%) received analgesics not recommended by amda (or = 0.65, 95% ci =0.52-0.80). fifty-one percent of hospice residents and 33% of nonhospice residents received regular treatment for daily pain. controlling for clinical confounders, hospice residents were twice as likely as nonhospice residents to receive regular treatment for daily pain (adjusted odds ratio = 2.08, 95% ci = 1.68-2.56). findings suggest that analgesic management of daily pain is better for nursing home residents enrolled in hospice than for those not enrolled in hospice.the prescribing practices portrayed by this study reveal that many dying nursing home residents in daily pain are receiving no analgesic treatment or are receiving analgesic treatment inconsistent with amda and other pain management guidelines. improving the analgesic management of pain in nursing homes is essential if high-quality end-of-life care in nursing homes is to be achieved.
Fulfilling human resources development goal in West Africa: can the training of ophthalmologist diplomates be improved? [SEP] fulfilling human resources development goal in west africa: can the training of ophthalmologist diplomates be improved? to ascertain the perspectives of trainee ophthalmologist diplomats (tod) on the ophthalmic diploma training (odt) in west africa with a view to improving the programme. a survey of set 2005 tod on odt was carried out in ghana, 2006. the sponsors of the trainees included sight savers international, five (41.7%); christian blind mission international, three (25.0%); eye foundation, lagos, nigeria two (16.7%); ministry of defence nigeria, one (8.3%); and health authority ghana, one (8.3%). eleven (91.7%) trainees would work wherever they were posted; ten (83.3%) trainees had sense of fulfillment and three (25%) would like to proceed for residency training. all trainees were at least good in chalazion surgery and treatment of common medical eye conditions. majority were at least good in eye surgery like cataract, eleven (91.7%); trabeculectomy nine (75.0%); pterygium 10 (83.3%); eyelid, eight (66.7%); destructive 11 (91.6%) and refraction 9 (75.0%). some trainees' perceived problems included inadequate sponsorship (33.3%), short duration of the course four (33.3%) and poor accommodation facility two (16.7%). the odt programme ensures ophthalmic manpower for secondary eye care level despite challenges. the stakeholders should look into problems facing the programme in order to improve it.
Does binge drinking during early pregnancy increase the risk of psychomotor deficits? [SEP] does binge drinking during early pregnancy increase the risk of psychomotor deficits? the potential effects of binge drinking during pregnancy on child motor function have only been assessed in a few, small studies. we aimed to examine the effects of binge alcohol consumption during early pregnancy, including number of binge episodes and timing of binge drinking, on child motor function at age 5. we performed a prospective follow-up study of 678 women and their children sampled from the danish national birth cohort based on maternal alcohol consumption during pregnancy. at 5 years of age, the children were tested with the movement assessment battery for children. parental education, maternal iq, prenatal maternal smoking, the child's age at testing, sex of child, and tester were considered core confounders, while the full model also controlled for prenatal maternal average alcohol intake, maternal age and prepregnancy body mass index, parity, home environment, postnatal parental smoking, health status, participation in organized sport, and indicators for hearing and vision impairment. there were no systematic or significant differences in motor function between children of mothers reporting isolated episodes of binge drinking and children of mothers with no binge episodes. no association was observed with respect to the number of binge episodes (maximum of 12) and timing of binge drinking. in this study, we found no systematic association between isolated episodes of binge drinking during early pregnancy and child motor function at age 5.
Does tranexamic acid reduce desmopressin-induced hyperfibrinolysis? [SEP] does tranexamic acid reduce desmopressin-induced hyperfibrinolysis? desmopressin releases tissue-type plasminogen activator, which augments cardiopulmonary bypass--associated hyperfibrinolysis, causing excessive bleeding. combined use of desmopressin with prior administration of the antifibrinolytic drug tranexamic acid may decrease fibrinolytic activity and might improve postoperative hemostasis. this prospective randomized study was carried out with 100 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass operations between april 1999 and november 2000 in gülhane military medical academy. desmopressin (0.3 microg/kg) was administrated just after cardiopulmonary bypass and after protamine infusion in group 1 (n = 50). both desmopressin and tranexamic acid (before the skin incision at a loading dose of 10 mg/kg over 30 minutes and followed by 12 hours of 1 mg.kg(-1).h(-1)) were administrated in group 2 (n = 50). only 24% of patients in group 2 required donor blood or blood products compared with 74% of those in the isolated desmopressin group (group 1, p =.00001). group 1 and group 2 findings were as follows: postoperative fibrinogen, 113 +/- 56.3 mg/dl versus 167 +/- 45.8 mg/dl (p =.0001); fibrin split product, 21.2 +/- 2.3 ng/ml versus 13.5 +/- 3.4 ng/ml (p =.0001); and postoperative hemoglobin level, 7.6 plus minus 1.2 g/dl versus 9.1 plus minus 1.2 g/dl (p =.0001). tranexamic acid administration significantly reduces desmopressin and bypass-induced hyperfibrinolysis. combined use of tranexamic acid and desmopressin decreases both postoperative blood loss and transfusion requirement.
Does ultrasound-scored synovitis depend on the pharmacokinetics of subcutaneous anti-TNF agents in patients with rheumatoid arthritis? [SEP] does ultrasound-scored synovitis depend on the pharmacokinetics of subcutaneous anti-tnf agents in patients with rheumatoid arthritis? the aim of this study was to investigate the influence of the pharmacokinetics of s.c. anti-tnf agents on the grade of us-detected synovitis in ra patients. fifty ra patients were prospectively recruited from the biologic therapy unit of our hospital. inclusion criteria were being in treatment with s.c. anti-tnf agents and having had neither changes in therapy nor local corticosteroid injections in the previous 3 months. patients underwent clinical, laboratory [28-joint das (das28) and simplified disease activity index (sdai)] and us assessment at two time points, i.e. at peak plasma drug concentration and at trough plasma drug concentration. us assessments were performed blindly to the anti-tnf agent, the administration time and the clinical and laboratory data. twenty-eight joints were investigated for the presence and grade (0-3) of b-mode synovitis and synovial power doppler signal. global indices for b-mode synovitis (bsi) and doppler synovitis (dsi) were calculated for 12 joints and for wrist-hand-ankle-foot joints. our results suggested that s.c. anti-tnf pharmacokinetics do not significantly influence us-scored synovitis in ra patients.
Global Longitudinal Pathway: has medical education curriculum influenced medical students' skills and attitudes toward culturally diverse populations? [SEP] global longitudinal pathway: has medical education curriculum influenced medical students' skills and attitudes toward culturally diverse populations? the pathway represents a longitudinal program for medical students, consisting of both domestic and international experiences with poor populations. a previous study reported no significant attitudinal changes toward the medically indigent between pathway and non-pathway students. the purpose of this study was to investigate and differentiate the skills and attitudes of pathway and non-pathway students in working with culturally diverse populations by conducting quantitative and qualitative analyses. selected items from a cultural assessment were analyzed using independent t-tests and a proportional analysis using approximation of the binomial distribution. in addition, a qualitative assessment of non-pathway and pathway students was conducted. a statistically significant difference was found at the end of years 2, 3, and 4 regarding student confidence ratings, and qualitative results had similar findings. clear and distinct differences between the two studied groups were found indicating the root of this increased confidence may have developed due to exposure to the pathway program.
Failed IUD insertions in community practice: an under-recognized problem? [SEP] failed iud insertions in community practice: an under-recognized problem? the data analysis was conducted to describe the rate of unsuccessful copper t380a intrauterine device (iud) insertions among women using the iud for emergency contraception (ec) at community family planning clinics in utah. insertions were performed by nurse practitioners at two family planning clinics in order to generalize findings to the type of service setting most likely to employ this intervention. the effect of parity on iud insertion success was determined using exact logistic regression models adjusted for individual practitioner failure rates. six providers performed 197 iud insertion attempts. among nulliparous women, 27 of 138 (19.6%) iud insertions were unsuccessful. in parous women, 8 of 59 iud insertions were unsuccessful (13.6%). the adjusted odds ratio (aor) showed that iud insertion failure was more likely in nulliparous women compared to parous women (aor=2.31, 95% ci 0.90-6.52, p=.09). the high rate of unsuccessful iud insertions reported here, particularly for nulliparous women, suggests that the true insertion failure rate of providers who are not employing additional tools for difficult insertions may be much higher than reported in clinical trials. further investigation is necessary to determine if this is a common problem and, if so, to assess if the use of adjuvant measures will reduce the number of unsuccessful iud insertions.
Type II supracondylar humerus fractures: can some be treated nonoperatively? [SEP] supracondylar humerus fractures are the most common elbow injuries in children, with non-operative management frequently preferred in gartland type i and selected type ii cases. this retrospective cohort study analyzed 237 children (aged 3-13 years) treated non-operatively for supracondylar humerus fractures between february 2019 and february 2024. examining outcomes and complications for operative versus nonoperative treatment of pediatric type ii supracondylar humerus fractures: a systematic review of comparative studies. the optimal management of pediatric type ii supracondylar humerus fractures (schfs) is debated. nonoperative versus operative treatment of type iia supracondylar humerus fractures: a prospective evaluation of 99 patients. risk factors related reduction loss in nonoperatively treated type ii supracondylar humerus fractures. gartland type 1 supracondylar humerus fractures are stable, non-displaced injuries treated with non-operative management. pediatric type ii supracondylar humerus fractures: factors associated with successful closed reduction and immobilization. an institutional review board-approved retrospective review of all children who underwent closed reduction and casting or splinting of an isolated type iia supracondylar humerus fractures treated at 2 pediatric hospitals from january 1, 2009 to august 31, 2016. this study adds support for a nonoperative closed reduction under sedation with immobilization of selected type iia supracondylar humerus fractures.
The promise of specialty pharmaceuticals: are they worth the price? [SEP] amcp partnership forum: biosimilars--ready, set, launch. what can be gained from increased early-stage interaction between regulators, payers and the pharmaceutical industry? new medicines are the lifeblood of the global innovative pharmaceutical industry. the promise of specialty pharmaceuticals: are they worth the price? specialty pharmaceuticals have evolved beyond their status as niche drugs designed to treat rare conditions and are now poised to become the standard of care in a wide variety of common chronic illnesses. to outline emerging strategies and case study examples for the medical and pharmacy benefits management of specialty pharmaceuticals. the promise of specialty pharmaceuticals: increased life expectancy, improved quality of life, enhanced workplace productivity, decreased burden of disease, and reduced health care spending comes at a significant cost. with the specialty pharmaceutical pipeline overflowing with new medicines and an aging population increasingly relying on these novel treatments to treat common diseases, the challenge of managing the costs associated with these agents can be daunting. aided by sophisticated pharmacoeconomic models to assess value, the cost impacts of these specialty drugs can be appropriately controlled. current evidence suggests that when used in targeted patient populations, specialty pharmaceuticals may represent a good health care value.
Does invasive diagnosis of nosocomial pneumonia during off-hours delay treatment? [SEP] does invasive diagnosis of nosocomial pneumonia during off-hours delay treatment? we examined whether invasive lung-specimen collection-to-treatment times for intensive care unit patients with suspected ventilator-associated pneumonia (vap) differ with to the work shift during which specimens were collected. we compared weekday day shifts and off-hours (from 6:30 p.m. to 8:29 a.m. the next day for night shifts, from saturday 1:00 p.m. to monday 8:29 a.m. for weekends, and from 8:30 a.m. to 8:29 a.m. the following morning for public holidays). single-center, observational study in the intensive care unit in an academic teaching hospital. 101 patients who developed 152 episodes of bacteriologically confirmed vap. of the 152 vap episodes 66 were diagnosed during off-hours. neither more bronchoscopy complications nor more inappropriate initial antimicrobial treatments for patients were observed between day and off-hour shifts. indeed, the overall time from brochoalveolar lavage to antibiotic administration was shorter for off-hours than day-shifts due to shorter specimen collection-to-antibiotic prescription times, but antibiotic prescription-to-administration times were the same. an invasive strategy based on bronchoscopy to diagnose vap was not associated with a longer time to first appropriate antibiotic administration when clinical suspicion of vap occurs during off-hours.
Undescended testes: does age at orchiopexy affect survival of the testis? [SEP] undescended testes: does age at orchiopexy affect survival of the testis? the optimal age at which to perform orchiopexy for cryptorchidism has long been debated. the aim of this study was to determine if age at orchiopexy affected testicular atrophy. a retrospective review of patients undergoing orchiopexy from 2000 to 2010 was conducted. an individual testis, rather than patient, was used as the dependent variable. primary study outcome was testicular survival without atrophy. there was postoperative atrophy in 27 testes (7.7%). intraabdominal testicle was independently associated with increased postsurgical atrophy (p<0.0001). testicular atrophy was highest for orchiopexy at ages 13-24 months (n=16 of 133, 12%) vs. those less than 13 months (n=3 of 64, 5%), and those greater than 24 months (n=8 of 152, 5%) (p=0.0024). from this study we conclude that there is no increase in testicular atrophy in patients less than 13 months.
Do lipids, blood pressure, diabetes, and smoking confer equal risk of myocardial infarction in women as in men? [SEP] do lipids, blood pressure, diabetes, and smoking confer equal risk of myocardial infarction in women as in men? this study assesses the major risk factors for coronary events in men and women from the reykjavik study. within a prospective, population-based cohort study individuals without history of myocardial infarction were identified and the relative risk of baseline variables was assessed in relation to verified myocardial infarction or coronary death during follow-up. of the 9681 women and 8888 men who attended risk assessment from 1967-1991, with follow-up period of up to 28 years, 706 women and 1700 men suffered a non-fatal myocardial infarction or coronary death. serum cholesterol was a significant risk factor for both sexes, with hazard ratios (hr) decreasing with age. systolic blood pressure was a stronger risk factor for women as was ecg-confirmed left ventricular hypertrophy (women hr 2.89, 95% confidence interval [ci] 1.67-5.01; men hr 1.11 [ci 0.86-1.43]). fasting blood glucose > or =6.7 mmol/l identified significantly higher risk for women (hr 2.65) than men (hr 2.08) as did self-reported diabetes. triglyceride risk was significantly higher for women and decreased significantly with age. smoking increased risk two- to five-fold, increasing with dose, for women, which was significantly higher than the doubling in risk for men. this large study of the major risk factors compared between the sexes demonstrates similar relative risk of myocardial infarction associated with cholesterol for both sexes, however, the relative risk is higher in women for many other risk factors such as smoking, diabetes, elevated triglycerides and left ventricular hypertrophy.
Does family practice at residency teaching sites reflect community practice? [SEP] early career family physician perspectives on their residency experience and practice choices in canada: a qualitative study. this study aimed to describe and understand the role residency training experiences played in shaping practice choices, including the provision of comprehensive community-based care, among early career family physicians. participants described positive residency training experiences that shaped practice choice with respect to preceptors and mentorship, experiences of longitudinal care, breadth of exposure, and preparedness for comprehensive clinical practice. woven through these four domains were " findings highlight opportunities for educational reform supporting the transition from residency to practice alongside the importance of addressing systemic factors beyond training which impact physicians' choices regarding comprehensive care. this study describes the scope and diagnostic outcomes of skin biopsies performed by residents at a multisite family medicine residency network in comparison with those performed by attendings at a family medicine faculty community practice. building the foundation for universal healthcare: academic family medicine's ability to train family medicine practitioners to meet the needs of their community across the globe. inconsistent role modeling of professionalism in family medicine residency: resident perspectives from 2 ontario sites. to explore how family medicine (fm) residents experience role modeling of professionalism by fm preceptors. some, but not all, residents could identify experiences with role modeling of profession-led regulation and reflective practice. we sought to determine if residency programs whose main family medicine (fm) practice sites have achieved pcmh recognition are therefore more prepared to evaluate milestones.
The effective orifice area/patient aortic annulus area ratio: a better way to compare different bioprostheses? [SEP] the effective orifice area/patient aortic annulus area ratio: a better way to compare different bioprostheses? a prospective randomized comparison of the mosaic and perimount bioprostheses in the aortic position. the aim of this prospective, randomized study was to compare the hemodynamic performance of the medtronic mosaic and edwards perimount bioprostheses in the aortic position, and to evaluate prosthesis-specific differences in valve sizing and valve-size labeling. between august 2000 and september 2002, 139 patients underwent isolated aortic valve replacement (avr) with the mosaic (n = 67) or perimount (n = 72) bioprosthesis. intraoperatively, the internal aortic annulus diameter was measured by insertion of a gauge (hegar dilator), while prosthesis size was determined by using the original sizers. as the aim of avr is to achieve a maximal effective orifice area (eoa) within a given aortic annulus, the ratio of eoa to patient aortic annulus area was calculated, the latter being based on annulus diameter measured intraoperatively. upsizing (using a prosthesis larger in labeled valve size than the patient's measured internal aortic annulus diameter) was possible in 28.4% of mosaic patients and 8.3% of perimount patients. the eoa ranged from 0.78 to 2.37 cm2 in mosaic patients, and from 0.95 to 2.12 cm2 in perimount patients. when indexing eoa by calculating the ratio of eoa to patient aortic annulus area to adjust for variables such as patient anatomy and valve dimensions, there was no significant difference between the two bioprostheses. the eoa:patient aortic annulus area ratio provides a new hemodynamic index which may facilitate objective comparisons between different valve types.
Evaluation of pediatric VCUG at an academic children's hospital: is the radiographic scout image necessary? [SEP] 
Are endometrial polyps from pre-menopausal women similar to post-menopausal women? [SEP] are endometrial polyps from pre-menopausal women similar to post-menopausal women? an immunohistochemical comparison of endometrial polyps from pre- and post-menopausal women. do endometrial polyps from pre- and post-menopausal women have similar immunohistochemical expression of oestrogen and progesterone receptors (er, pr) and markers of cellular proliferation/apoptosis (ki67 and bcl-2). polyps recruited from women attending an out-patient hysteroscopy clinic in a uk district general hospital. fourteen pre-menopausal and 16 post-menopausal women who presented with abnormal bleeding with endometrial polyps. immunohistochemical staining was performed on endometrial polyps. significant differences or correlations between hormone receptor expression (oestrogen and progesterone) and cell growth indices (ki67 and bcl-2). endometrial polyps from pre- and post-menopausal women had significant differences in their expression of hormone receptors and ki67. however, polyps from both groups of women had similarly increased levels of bcl-2, an inhibitor of apoptosis. pre- and post-menopausal polyps exhibit differing hormone receptor and proliferation markers, presumably a result of their hormonal milieu.
The Prevalence of Incidentally Detected Idiopathic Misty Mesentery on Multidetector Computed Tomography: Can Obesity Be the Triggering Cause? [SEP] the prevalence of incidentally detected idiopathic misty mesentery on multidetector computed tomography: can obesity be the triggering cause? misty mesentery appearance is commonly reported in daily practice, usually as a secondary finding of various pathological entities, but sometimes it is encountered as an isolated finding that cannot be attributed to any other disease entity. we aimed to assess the prevalence of cases with incidentally detected idiopathic misty mesentery on computed tomography (ct) and to summarize the pathologies leading to this appearance. medical records and initial and follow-up ct features of patients with misty mesentery appearance between january 2011 and january 2013 were analysed. the study included cases with no known cause of misty mesentery according to associated ct findings, clinical history, or biochemical manifestations, and excluded patients with diseases known to cause misty mesentery, lymph nodes greater than a short-axis diameter of 5 mm, discrete mesenteric masses, or bowel wall thickening. there were a total of 561 patients in whom misty mesentery appearance was depicted on abdominopelvic ct scans. a total of 80 cases were found to have isolated incidental idiopathic misty mesentery, giving a prevalence of 7%. 67.5% of all patients were classified as obese and 17.5% as overweight. the results of the present study show that idiopathic incidental misty mesentery appearance has a significant prevalence. also, the high body mass index of these patients and the growing evidence of obesity-induced inflammatory changes in adipose tissue are suggestive of an association between obesity and misty mesentery appearance on ct.
Are pediatric concussion patients compliant with discharge instructions? [SEP] are pediatric concussion patients compliant with discharge instructions? the primary objective of this study was to evaluate compliance with ed discharge instructions for concussion management. subjects were administered a baseline survey in the ed and were given standardized discharge instructions for concussion by the treating physician. pediatric patients discharged from the ed are mostly compliant with concussion instructions. variability in discharge instructions and activity restrictions for patients in a children's ed postconcussion. the objective of this study was to describe discharge instructions given to school-aged patients evaluated in a children's emergency department (ed) following concussion. discharge characteristics included concussion stated in final diagnosis, 31%; concussion-specific instructions, 62%; and activity restrictions, 34%. concussion-specific discharge instructions were more likely for loss of consciousness (or, 1.7; 95% confidence interval [ci], 1.22-2.36), and activity restrictions were more likely for sport-related injury (or, 1.31; 95% ci, 1.02-1.76) and amnesia (or, 1.42; 95% ci, 1.01-1.98). most children meeting diagnostic criteria for concussion were discharged without concussion-specific diagnoses or activity restrictions. given the risks associated with untimely return to both physical and cognitive activity after concussion, improved awareness and standardization of disposition are imperative for the management of these young patients in the ed.
Is the zeolite hemostatic agent beneficial in reducing blood loss during arterial injury? [SEP] 
Treatment as prevention in resource-limited settings: is it feasible to maintain HIV viral load suppression over time? [SEP] treatment as prevention in resource-limited settings: is it feasible to maintain hiv viral load suppression over time? recently, there has been increasing interest in the role of "treatment as prevention" (tasp). some of the questions regarding tasp strategies arise from the perceived difficulties in achieving and maintaining viral load (vl) suppression over time and the risk of emergence of viral resistance that could compromise future treatment options. this study was conducted to assess these questions in a resource-limited setting. we performed a retrospective observational study of hiv-infected patients diagnosed in the pre-haart era on follow-up at a private center from buenos aires, argentina. analyses were performed to test for potential associations of selected variables with current virologic failure or use of third-line drugs. at the time of our study, 79 (96.3%) patients were on haart, with a median duration of 14 years (iqr 12-15) of therapy, and exposure to mono or dual nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors regimens in 47.8% of cases. sixty-nine patients (87.3%) had undetectable vl, 37 (46.8%) never presented virologic failure, and 19 (24.1%) experienced only one failure. thirteen patients (16.5%) were receiving third-line art regimens, with an average of 2.7-fold more virologic failures than those on first- or second-line regimens (p = 0.007). maintaining viral load suppression over time in resource-limited-settings is feasible.
Are octogenarians at high risk for carotid endarterectomy? [SEP] safety of carotid endarterectomy in the elderly and octogenarian population: a nationwide study including 80,000 patients. octogenarians had significantly higher 30-day complication, readmission, reoperation, non-home discharge, and mortality rates compared with patients aged 60-80 (all p < 0.001), even after propensity matching. carotid endarterectomy in the very elderly: short-, medium-, and long-term outcomes. trends in mortality and postoperative complications among octogenarian patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy. this study aims to assess the contemporary frequency of octogenarians undergoing carotid endarterectomy (cea) and to evaluate their postoperative complications and survival rates. patients at high risk and standard risk for carotid endarterectomy were included. carotid endarterectomy is safe for octogenarians. thirty-day stroke and mortality after carotid revascularization among octogenarians with symptomatic carotid stenosis: real-world evidence from a national surgical quality registry. association of carotid revascularization approach with perioperative outcomes based on symptom status and degree of stenosis among octogenarians. transcarotid artery revascularization versus carotid endarterectomy and transfemoral stenting in octogenarians.
Has the mammography quality standards act affected the mammography quality in North Carolina? [SEP] factors affecting decreasing radiation dose for mammography in north carolina after 2002: an analysis of food and drug administration annual surveys. we sought to determine which factors affected the decrease in average glandular dose recorded at the annual u.s. food and drug administration mammography quality standards act inspections of mammography equipment in north carolina from 2002 through 2005. average glandular dose for mammography has decreased in north carolina after 2002. factors affecting increasing radiation dose for mammography in north carolina from 1997 through 2001: an analysis of food and drug administration annual surveys. to determine which factors affected the increase in average glandular dose recorded at the annual us food and drug administration mammography quality standards act inspections of mammography equipment in north carolina from 1997 to 2001. average glandular dose for mammography has recently increased in north carolina. has the mammography quality standards act affected the mammography quality in north carolina? the united states food and drug administration implemented federal regulations governing mammography under the mammography quality standards act (mqsa) of 1992. during 1995, its first year in implementation, we examined the impact of the mqsa on the quality of mammography in north carolina. in 1995, the first year that the mqsa was in effect, there was a significant improvement in the quality of mammography in north carolina.
Do hospitals provide lower quality care on weekends? [SEP] is there a "weekend effect" in adenoma detection rate?a single-center retrospective study. the "weekend effect"-inferior patient outcomes on weekends-has been reported across healthcare. this study investigated whether a weekend effect exists for adr in a large cohort and analyzed potential contributing factors. patients were categorized into weekend (saturday/sunday) and weekday (monday-friday) groups. of 16,550 colonoscopies (4,435 weekend, 12,115 weekday), adr was significantly lower on weekends (24.1% vs. 26.2%, p = 0.006). median withdrawal time was shorter on weekends (3.61 vs. 4.59 minutes, p < 0.001). subgroup analyses revealed that the weekend effect was significant in specific patient groups compared to their weekday counterparts: females (aor 0.868, p = 0.022), patients aged 50-59 years (aor 0.698, p < 0.001), and those with inadequate preparation (bbps<6; aor 0.640, p = 0.010). quality improvement efforts should therefore prioritize enforcing guideline-adherent withdrawal times, optimizing bowel preparation, and providing targeted support to less-experienced endoscopists during weekend services to standardize colonoscopy quality across all days of the week. two days/quarter (one weekday/weekend day, avoiding infectious disease outbreaks) were selected and 1000 cases were randomly extracted for secondary analysis. weekends showed lower sedentary behavior (weekdays: 42.5-45.4% versus weekends: 38.5-42.1%) and longer sleep duration (weekdays: 27.8-29.3% versus weekends: 29.8-32.0%) across all timepoints.
Screening History Among Women with Invasive Cervical Cancer in an Academic Medical Center: Will We Miss Cancers Following Updated Guidelines? [SEP] 
Oral mucocele/ranula: Another human immunodeficiency virus-related salivary gland disease? [SEP] oral mucocele/ranula: another human immunodeficiency virus-related salivary gland disease? to describe clinical characteristics of oral mucoceles/ranulas, with a focus on human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-related salivary gland diseases. we reviewed 113 referred cases of oral mucocele. the age and gender data of the patients with oral mucoceles were recorded. ranula (simple and plunging) represented 84.1% of the mucocele locations. seventy-two (63.7%) patients were hiv positive; and 97.2% of them had ranulas. thirty-eight (33.6%) patients presented with plunging ranulas; and 92.1% of them were hiv positive, compared with two patients presenting with plunging ranulas in the hiv-negative group. these results strongly suggest that an hiv-positive patient is statistically (p < 0.001) more at risk of presenting with not only a simple, but also a plunging ranula type. this study presents a different clinical picture of oral mucoceles/ranulas, as observed in hiv-positive patients. the authors strongly support the suggestion that oral mucocele/ranula is an hiv-related salivary gland disease.
Is there an increase in the incidence of gbs carrier rates among pregnant women in northern Israel? [SEP] [is there an increase in the incidence of gbs carrier rates among pregnant women in northern israel?]. group b streptococci (gbs) asymptomatically colonize the vaginal or rectal areas of about 20% of pregnant women (4-40%). about 50% of infants to mothers with gbs colonization also become colonized at rectal, umbilical or oral sites. gbs is a leading bacterial cause of neonatal illness and death. the present prevalence rate of gbs carriers among parturients in the western galilee in israel is unknown. a prospective study of the gbs carrier rate according to origin and gestational age in the western galilee in israel. the prevalence of gbs was 13.7% in jewish women and 19% in arab women, p=0.038. no difference was found in the rate of gbs carriers between the two gestational age groups. in the present study we found a significant increase in the incidence of gbs colonization in pregnant women in northern israel. we also found an increased rate of gbs carriers in arab women relative to jewish women.
Does a dedicated discharge coordinator improve the quality of hospital discharge? [SEP] improving time to diagnosis and discharge in clinical decision units: the impact of progression of care huddles. this study evaluates the impact of implementing progression-of-care huddles on diagnosis and discharge times. scoping review of adult emergency department discharge interventions. the discharge process is a crucial component of the emergency department (ed) encounter, with poor discharge quality often leading to negative patient outcomes. we found that interventions aimed at improving patient comprehension of discharge instructions were the most frequently studied and had the greatest impact on patient outcomes. a dedicated hip fracture care coordinator is associated with improved patient outcomes and hospital quality measures. this study aims to identify if there are significant differences in hospital quality measures between hip fracture patients who were treated under the management of a dedicated hip fracture care coordinator (hfcc) and those who were not. when controlling for covariates using binary logistic regression, the presence of an hfcc was associated with a higher likelihood of home discharge (odds ratio = 2.481, p < .001). inter-organizational coordination to improve patient outcomes in multimorbid older patients following hospital discharge - a systematic review. effective hospital discharge planning is vital for cost reduction and patient care improvement.
Can dobutamine stress echocardiography induce cardiac troponin elevation? [SEP] takotsubo cardiomyopathy (ttc), also known as stress-induced cardiomyopathy or apical ballooning syndrome, is a temporary heart condition characterized by a sudden and reversible weakening of the heart muscle, often triggered by significant emotional or physical stress. it may present with acute chest pain, electrocardiographic changes mimicking acute coronary syndrome, modest troponin elevation, and characteristic left ventricular systolic dysfunction with apical or mid-ventricular ballooning on echocardiography in the absence of obstructive coronary artery disease. high-sensitivity troponin t was elevated, and transthoracic echocardiography demonstrated reduced left ventricular ejection fraction with apical and mid-ventricular hypokinesia and basal sparing. laboratory testing demonstrated elevated high-sensitivity cardiac troponin and markedly increased pro-b-type natriuretic peptide levels. on day 4, cardiac biomarkers were elevated (troponin t: 28 ng/l; nt-probnp: 1582 pg/ml). early echocardiography and targeted anti-inflammatory therapy may facilitate diagnosis and promote full recovery. ehs was associated with structural damage to myocardial tissue, including myocardial fibrosis, pathological echocardiographic changes and a substantial elevation of the myocardial injury biomarker (cardiac troponin i). two days postoperatively, she developed acute chest pain and troponin elevation. takotsubo cardiomyopathy (tcm), also known as stress-induced cardiomyopathy, is characterized by transient, reversible left ventricular systolic dysfunction in the absence of obstructive coronary artery disease (cad). she presented with chest pain and elevated troponin levels, but without st-segment elevation.
Cigarettes and cinema: does parental restriction of R-rated movie viewing reduce adolescent smoking susceptibility? [SEP] cigarettes and cinema: does parental restriction of r-rated movie viewing reduce adolescent smoking susceptibility? to examine the relationship between exposure to pro-smoking messages in media and susceptibility to smoking adoption among middle school students. the hypothesis that parental restriction of r-rated movie viewing is associated with lower adolescent smoking susceptibility was tested. a sample of 1687 6th-, 7th-, and 8th-grade students from four wisconsin middle schools were surveyed about their use of cigarettes, exposure to smoking in media, their views of smoking, and peer smoking behaviors. an index of smoking susceptibility was created using measures of cigarette use and future intention to smoke. a zero-order correlation for parental restriction of r-rated movie viewing and smoking susceptibility showed a strong association (r = -.36, p < .001). a hierarchical logistic regression yielded odds ratios (ors) for being susceptible to or having tried smoking for three levels of parental r-rated movie restriction. results show that compared to full restriction, respondents with partial or no restriction were more likely to be susceptible to smoking (partial restriction: or = 2.1, 95% ci = 1.5-2.8; no restriction: or = 3.3, 95% ci = 2.3-4.6), when controlling for demographic factors, and family and friend smoking. analyses using a measure of smoking prevalence as the dependent variable yielded similar results (partial restriction: or = 1.5, 95% ci = 1.0-2.2; no restriction: or = 2.5, 95% ci = 1.7-3.7). parental restriction of r-rated movie viewing is associated with both lower adolescent smoking susceptibility and lower smoking rates.
Are laboratories reporting serum quantitative hCG results correctly? [SEP] prevalence of correct classification of viable intrauterine pregnancies, ectopic pregnancies, and early pregnancy losses was evaluated with a new proposed hcg threshold model and compared with three established models describing minimum expected rates of hcg rise for a viable intrauterine pregnancy. at 6 days after initial hcg, only seven ectopic pregnancies (12.1%) and 25 early pregnancy losses (5.6%) were incorrectly classified as potentially normal pregnancies. are laboratories reporting serum quantitative hcg results correctly? human chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) is a heterodimeric glycoprotein hormone that exists in multiple forms. immunoassays commonly used in clinical laboratories measure intact hcg, total beta hcg (intact hcg + hcg free beta-subunit), and/or hcg free beta-subunit. measurement of serum concentrations of hcg is useful for confirmation and monitoring of pregnancy, diagnosis of trophoblastic diseases and monitoring of the efficacy of treatment, and prenatal screening. correctly reporting results for the various forms of hcg is clinically important. we prepared samples by addition of intact hcg and hcg free beta-subunit to an essentially hcg-free human serum matrix. we identified errors in participant reporting of intact hcg results as total beta hcg (9.3%; 22 of 235 laboratories) and total beta hcg as intact hcg (13.1%; 8 of 61 laboratories). many factors contribute to the erroneous reporting of hcg results, including (a) the complexity of hcg molecule and confusion of nomenclature on the various forms of hcg; (b) laboratory personnel's lack of awareness of the distinctions of the forms of hcg and failure to recognize the specificity of assays for their measurement; (c) lack of clarity and uniformity in manufacturers' reagent labeling; and (d) most product inserts' lack of information on the specificity of each method to the various forms of hcg.
Steroids in aminoglycoside-containing ear drops: do they reduce cochlear toxicity? [SEP] steroids in aminoglycoside-containing ear drops: do they reduce cochlear toxicity? to determine whether betamethasone (bm) reduces the cochlear toxicity of otic gentamicin (gm) if given together. controlled animal study. thirty-four mice were assigned at random to receive intratympanic injections of either 0.1 % bm (11 mice), 0.3% gm (13 mice), or a combination of both (gm/bm) with benzalkonium chloride (10 mice) in the left ear (treated) and saline on the right (untreated). six injections were given on alternate days. auditory brainstem response thresholds were assessed at 1 month, 2 months, and >2 months. there was a significantly greater degree of hearing loss in the bm-treated ears compared to the untreated ears (6.48 db hearing loss, p = .007) and in the gm-treated ears compared to untreated ears (6.59 db hearing loss, p = .010,). however, otic gm/bm and benzalkonium chloride did not cause significant additional hearing loss compared with the untreated ears (3.56 db hearing loss, p = .242). our data suggest that hearing loss caused by gm otic drops may be reduced by the inclusion of bm and benzalkonium chloride. our finding that bm alone was associated with hearing loss suggests that the benzalkonium chloride may be the protective agent in combination otic drops.
Does having a regular primary care clinician improve quality of preventive care for young children? [SEP] does having a regular primary care clinician improve quality of preventive care for young children? this study examines whether having a regular clinician for preventive care is associated with quality of care for young children, as measured by interpersonal quality ratings and content of anticipatory guidance. bivariate and multivariate analyses evaluate associations between having a regular clinician for well child care and interpersonal quality, the content of anticipatory guidance, and timely access to care. in bivariate analysis, parents of children with a regular clinician for preventive care reported slightly higher interpersonal quality (69 vs. 65 on a 0-100 scale, p = 0.01). content of anticipatory guidance received was slightly greater for children with a regular clinician (82 vs. 80 on a 0-100 scale, p = 0.03). in bivariate analysis, a regular clinician was associated with interpersonal quality only among african american and hispanic children. in multivariate analyses, controlling for factors that could independently influence self-reports of experiences with care, interpersonal quality but not anticipatory guidance content was higher for children with a regular clinician. having a regular primary care clinician is embraced in pediatrics, although team care among physicians is also widely practiced. for young children, having a regular clinician is associated with modest gains in interpersonal quality and no differences in content of anticipatory guidance. the benefit of having a regular clinician may primarily occur in interpersonal quality for subgroups of young children.
Does performance in selection processes predict performance as a dental student? [SEP] therefore, the present study was conducted to comprehensively review various applications of ai in all dental branches along with its advantages and disadvantages. the ucat aims to measure the mental aptitude and professional behaviours required to become successful doctors and dentists. these data provide some support for the use of cognitive total and verbal reasoning subtests as part of medical school selection. studies with artificial intelligence models were selected based on 6 criteria: tooth shade selection, automated fabrication of dental restorations, mapping the finishing line of tooth preparations, optimizing the manufacturing casting process, predicting facial changes in patients with removable prostheses, and designing removable partial dentures. investigating dental aptitude test (dat) results as predictors for preclinical and clinical scores in dental school. the aim of the present study is to determine whether 2 current admission criteria, the perceptual ability test (pat) and the manual dexterity test (mdt) can predict success in dental school within the université de montréal population. predictive ability and stakeholders' perceptions of the selection tools for mbbs in women medical college: a mixed methods study. this study determined the predictive validity of these selection tools and explored the perceptions of stakeholders regarding the selection process and the use of selection tools in wmc. quantitative methods involved a retrospective cohort study design to determine the statistical correlation between the performance of candidates in the selection tools and their subsequent academic achievements at medical college. the selection tools showed poor predictive ability for the performance of students in the medical college.
Is it time to reconsider lobectomy in low-risk paediatric thyroid cancer? [SEP] is it time to reconsider lobectomy in low-risk paediatric thyroid cancer? current guidelines recommend total thyroidectomy for nearly all children with well-differentiated thyroid cancer (wdtc). we speculate that there is a subpopulation of children who may be adequately treated with lobectomy. seventy-three children with wdtc treated between 2004 and 2015. first, we determined the number of patients meeting american thyroid association (ata) 'low-risk' criteria, defined as disease grossly confined to the thyroid with either n0/nx or incidental microscopic n1a disease. second, we defined a set of 'very-low-risk' histopathological criteria, comprising unifocal tumours ≤4 cm without predefined high-risk factors, and determined the proportion of patients that met these criteria. of the 73 patients, 39 (53·4%) met ata low-risk criteria and 16 (21·9%) met 'very-low-risk' criteria. all 'very-low-risk' patients demonstrated excellent response to initial therapy without persistence/recurrence after a mean follow-up of 36·4 months. ultrasound and histopathology identify a substantial population that may be candidates for lobectomy, avoiding the risks and potential medical and psychosocial morbidity associated with total thyroidectomy. we propose a clinical framework to stimulate discussion of lobectomy as an option for low-risk patients.
Is an advance care planning model feasible in community palliative care? [SEP] 
Do preoperative serum C-reactive protein levels predict the definitive pathological stage in patients with clinically localized prostate cancer? [SEP] do preoperative serum c-reactive protein levels predict the definitive pathological stage in patients with clinically localized prostate cancer? the serum c-reactive protein (crp) level correlates with the clinical prognosis in patients with kidney, penile and metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (pc). we prospectively evaluated the preoperative crp level as a predictive marker for an advanced tumor stage or high-grade cancer in patients with clinically localized pc. the study evaluated 629 patients with clinically localized pc who underwent radical prostatectomy between 2010 and 2013. poorly differentiated pc tends to be more common in patients with elevated crp levels (15.5 vs. 9.5%, p = 0.08). analogously, patients with a gleason score ≥8 pc had significantly higher median crp levels than those with a gleason score ≤7 pc (1.9 vs. 1.2 mg/l, p = 0.03). however, neither uni- nor multivariate analysis showed an association between the preoperative crp level and the presence of a locally advanced tumor stage, lymph node metastases or a positive surgical margin. crp also failed to correlate with the initial psa level and the clinical tumor-associated findings. moreover, multivariate analysis relativized the association between an elevated crp level and poor tumor differentiation. in patients with clinically localized pc, crp does not appear to possess the predictive value and it was shown to have patients with other tumor entities or advanced pc.
Sub-classification of low-grade cerebellar astrocytoma: is it clinically meaningful? [SEP] sub-classification of low-grade cerebellar astrocytoma: is it clinically meaningful? the objectives were to identify prognostic factors for the survival of children with cerebellar astrocytoma, and to evaluate the reproducibility and prognostic value of histological sub-classification and grading. children aged 0-14 years treated in denmark for a cerebellar astrocytoma in the period 1960-1984 were included and followed until january 2001 or until their death. the histological specimens from each patient were reviewed for revised grading and classification according to three different classification schemes: the who, the kernohan and the daumas-duport grading systems. the significant positive prognostic factors for survival were "surgically gross-total removal" of the tumour at surgery and location of the tumour in the cerebellum proper as opposed to location in the fourth ventricle. no difference in survival time was demonstrated when we compared pilocytic astrocytoma and fibrillary astrocytoma. moreover, we found that the kernohan and the who classification systems had no predictive value and that the daumas-duport system is unsuitable as a prognostic tool for low-grade posterior fossa astrocytomas. discordant observations due to interobserver variability make histological sub-classification of low-grade cerebellar astrocytomas in children insufficient for predicting prognosis and biological behaviour. similar survival rates in a population of paediatric low-grade cerebellar astrocytomas of grades i and ii indicate that tumour grade has no prognostic significance within this group of patients. histological sub-classification of the tumours has no predictive value.
After CLASS--Is a voluntary public insurance program a realistic way to meet the long-term support and service needs of adults with disabilities? [SEP] 
Is intraoperative neuromonitoring associated with better functional outcome in patients undergoing open TME? [SEP] is intraoperative neuromonitoring associated with better functional outcome in patients undergoing open tme? intraoperative neuromonitoring (ionm) aims to control nerve-sparing total mesorectal excision (tme) for rectal cancer in order to improve patients' functional outcome. this study was designed to compare the urogenital and anorectal functional outcome of tme with and without ionm of innervation to the bladder and the internal anal sphincter. fifteen match pairs with open tme and combined urogenital and anorectal functional assessment at follow up were established identical regarding gender, tumour site, tumour stage, neoadjuvant radiotherapy and type of surgery. newly developed urinary dysfunction after surgery was reported by 1 of 15 patients in the ionm group and by 6 of 15 in the control group (p = 0.031). postoperative residual urine volume was significantly higher in the control group. at follow up impaired anorectal function was present in 1 of 15 patients undergoing tme with ionm and in 6 of 15 without ionm (p = 0.031). the ionm group showed a trend towards a lower rate of sexual dysfunction after surgery. in this study tme with ionm was associated with significant lower rates of urinary and anorectal dysfunction. prospective randomized trials are mandatory to evaluate the definite role of ionm in rectal cancer surgery.
Can we predict which head and neck cancer survivors develop fears of recurrence? [SEP] psychological variables associated with quality of life following primary treatment for head and neck cancer: a systematic review of the literature from 2004 to 2015. can we predict which head and neck cancer survivors develop fears of recurrence? the objectives of this study were to investigate longitudinal predictors of fear of recurrence in survivors of head and neck cancer (hnc) using leventhal's common sense model (csm) as a framework. the research questions were as follows: (a) to what extent do hnc patients report fear of cancer recurrence? (b) to what extent are fears of recurrence manifestations of illness-related anxiety? (d) what factors are predictive of long-term fears of recurrence? a prospective repeat measures design was employed whereby a sample of 82 newly diagnosed hnc patients (54 males, 28 females, mean age 60 years) completed measures of fears of recurrence, illness perceptions, coping, and anxiety and depression, prior to treatment and 6-8 months after treatment (fears of recurrence only). a third of hnc patients at diagnosis reported relatively high levels of fears of recurrence, with 12% still reporting similar levels of fear 6-8 months after treatment. path analyses demonstrated that fears of cancer recurrence after treatment were directly predicted by pre-treatment fears and optimism. although components of the csm (cognitive and emotional representations, coping strategies) were associated with fears of recurrence, optimism was found to be the strongest predictor of fear, independent of anxiety and level of fear reported prior to treatment.
The secular growth acceleration: does it appear during fetal life? [SEP] the secular growth acceleration: does it appear during fetal life? to test if secular growth acceleration occurs during fetal life. anova kruskal-wallis and mann-whitney u-test have been used for the biometric characteristics comparison of nowadays fetal population with those three decades ago and to test the hypothesis about the existence of secular growth acceleration during fetal life. for this purpose, we first calculated mean values of particular biometric parameters for the whole pregnancy. during the period 2002-2009 biparietal diameter, fetal length and abdominal circumference measurements in singleton uncomplicated pregnancies between 22 and 41 gestational weeks were obtained. gestational age was estimated according to naegele's rule and confirmed with an early ultrasound examination. pregnancies with fetal cromosomopathies and malformations were excluded as well as those resulting in perinatal death. there were no statistically significant differences of the examined fetal biometric parameters measured by ultrasound between contemporary fetal population and those from 35 years ago. our investigation did not undoubtedly prove that significant changes of fetal biometric parameters occurred in the last three decades. it is possible that secular growth acceleration does not exist in prenatal period but also the observed time period could have been short for this phenomenon to manifest.
Does hippocampal atrophy on MRI predict cognitive decline? [SEP] consequently, the prognostic assessment of mci is moving away from a single modality toward a stepwise integrated approach: primary screening adopts the combination of "clinical information (including mci subtype characteristics)+core neuropsychological assessment (focusing on delayed recall and executive function subtests of the montreal cognitive assessment)+blood biomarkers (plasma p-tau217 and gfap testing)"; the precise diagnostic phase adds structural mri to assess hippocampal atrophy; for difficult cases and research settings, csf testing, aβ-pet, and tau-pet are further introduced. 3d quantitative mri for cognitive performance: t1 relaxation times of the right putamen and volumes of the left hippocampus as key biomarkers. while hippocampal atrophy is a recognized imaging marker, the role of deep gray matter structures and tissue alterations remains less understood. baseline brain volumes predict cognitive decline more robustly than atrophy rates: evidence for brain reserve. this study investigated whether a static measure of brain structure, a proxy for accumulated reserve, or a dynamic measure of atrophy is a more powerful predictor of future cognitive changes. baseline brain volumes were robust predictors of cognitive decline, significantly outperforming short-term volumetric changes (atrophy rate). microglial reactivity predicts hippocampal, but not global, atrophy in cerebral small vessel disease. we determined whether microglial reactivity and bbb permeability at baseline predicted whole-brain and hippocampal atrophy over one year, and cognitive impairment over four years. although structural mri has consistently demonstrated widespread brain atrophy in ad, the comparative utility of different imaging sequences for predicting cognitive decline remains uncertain. our results support the utility of pnfl as a biomarker tracking hippocampal atrophy and memory function but not for predicting dmn fc in older adults with cognitive decline of alzheimer's type.
Chemoradiotherapy in the management of locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma esophagus: is surgical resection required? [SEP] neoadjuvant chemotherapy versus neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy for locally advanced oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma: a single-centre, open-label, randomized, controlled, clinical trial (hchtog1903). neoadjuvant therapy plus oesophagectomy has been accepted as the standard treatment for patients with potentially curable locally advanced oesophageal cancer. no completed randomized controlled trial (rct) has directly compared neoadjuvant chemotherapy and neoadjuvant chemoradiation in patients with oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (escc). the aim of the current rct is to investigate the impact of neoadjuvant chemotherapy plus surgery and neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy plus surgery on overall survival for patients with resectable locally advanced escc. this open label, single-centre, phase iii rct randomized patients (ct2-t4an + m0 and ct3-4an0m0) in a 1:1 fashion to receive either the cross regimen (paclitaxel 50 mg/m this rct directly compares a neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimen with a standard cross regimen in terms of overall survival for patients with locally advanced escc. chemoradiotherapy in the management of locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma esophagus: is surgical resection required? the present study aims to evaluate benefit of adding surgery to chemoradiotherapy alone in management of carcinoma esophagus. we retrospectively analyzed 45 eligible patients of squamous cell esophageal carcinoma which were enrolled from february 2008 to april 2009. all patients were treated with chemoradiotherapy (50.40 gy with 40 mg/m(2) of weekly cisplatin). the study suggests that there is no difference in clinical toxicity profiles or survival outcomes with either definitive chemoradiotherapy or chemoradiation followed by surgery in management of locally advanced esophageal cancer.
Does quantitative left ventricular regional wall motion change after fibrous tissue resection in endomyocardial fibrosis? [SEP] does quantitative left ventricular regional wall motion change after fibrous tissue resection in endomyocardial fibrosis? we compared left ventricular regional wall motion, the global left ventricular ejection fraction, and the new york heart association functional class pre- and postoperatively. endomyocardial fibrosis is characterized by fibrous tissue deposition in the endomyocardium of the apex and/or inflow tract of one or both ventricles. although left ventricular global systolic function is preserved, patients exhibit wall motion abnormalities in the apical and inferoapical regions. fibrous tissue resection in new york heart association fc iii and iv endomyocardial fibrosis patients has been shown to decrease morbidity and mortality. regional left ventricular motion was measured by the centerline method. five left ventricular segments were analyzed pre- and postoperatively. left ventricular wall motion in the five regions did not differ between pre- and postoperative measurements. additionally, the left ventricular ejection fraction did not change after surgery (0.45+/-0.13% x 0.43+/-0.12% pre- and postoperatively, respectively). although endomyocardial fibrosis patients have improved clinical symptoms after surgery, the global left ventricular ejection fraction and regional wall motion in these patients do not change.
Bridge experience with long-term implantable left ventricular assist devices. Are they an alternative to transplantation? [SEP] left ventricular assist devices as long-term mechanical circulatory support are increasingly used as an option for medically refractory advanced heart failure. outcomes on continuous flow left ventricular assist devices: a single institutional 9-year experience. clinical experience with the ventrassist left ventricular assist device. left ventricular mechanical assist device (lvad) support is well established as a bridge to transplantation and as an alternative to transplantation in patients with end-stage heart failure. clinical experience with long-term use of implantable left ventricular assist devices: indications, implantation, and outcomes. 100 long-term implantable left ventricular assist devices: the columbia presbyterian interim experience. the use of left ventricular assist devices (lvads) as bridge to transplantation is now accepted as a standard of care for a subset of end-stage heart failure patients. at that point, left ventricular assist devices began to be used as bridges to transplantation. as left ventricular assist devices were used for longer periods of time, we realized that the ventricular function and overall health of the patients awaiting transplant improved. used as a bridge to transplantation, left ventricular assist devices often increased a patient's chances of survival and recovery.
Does occupational nuclear power plant radiation affect conception and pregnancy? [SEP] does occupational nuclear power plant radiation affect conception and pregnancy? to determine the effect of occupational exposure in a nuclear power plant in griefswald, germany on male and female fecundity. the frequency of men and women exposed to ionizing radiation through work in a nuclear power plant among 270 infertile couples was retrospectively compared to a control fertile population using a pair-matched analysis. the total cumulative equivalent radiation dose was determined. in addition, the spermiograms of the male partners in both groups were compared and correlated to the degree of exposure. no differences were noted in the frequency of nuclear power plant exposure between sterile and fertile groups. there was a higher rate of anomalous spermiograms in nuclear power plant workers. however, abnormalities were temporary. no correlation was found between the cumulative equivalent radiation dose and abnormal spermiograms. the data suggest that occupational exposure due to ionizing radiation should be investigated as a possible cause for involuntary temporary sterility and as a risk factor for early pregnancy disorders.
Lloyd-Davies position with Trendelenburg--a disaster waiting to happen? [SEP] lloyd-davies position with trendelenburg--a disaster waiting to happen? lower limb compartment syndrome has been reported to occur after colorectal, urological, and gynecological procedures during which the patient's lower limbs are elevated for prolonged periods of time. we investigated lower limb perfusion in a group of patients undergoing prolonged pelvic surgery both during and immediately after surgery, using intra-arterial blood pressure monitoring, laser doppler flowmetry, and pulse oximetry. use of the modified lithotomy position was not associated with any demonstrable decrease in lower limb perfusion. the addition of 15 degrees head-down tilt, however, during pelvic dissection, led to an immediate and significant drop in lower limb perfusion (p < 0.05; mann-whitney u test). the subgroup of patients analyzed postoperatively showed a ten-fold increase (p < 0.01) in perfusion that was confined to the muscle compartment with no demonstrable increase in skin perfusion or intra-arterial pedal blood pressure. the use of the modified lithotomy position during pelvic surgery is not associated with lower limb ischemia. addition of trendelenburg position, however, causes profound ischemia of the lower limbs, and this is followed during the recovery period by hyperperfusion that is confined to the muscle compartments, which may put patients at risk of developing lower limb compartment syndrome.
Is patient outcome compromised during the initial experience with robot-assisted radical cystectomy? [SEP] robot-assisted radical nephroureterectomy with extended template lymphadenectomy for upper tract urothelial carcinoma: an outcome analysis. a robotic approach to radical nephroureterectomy with e-lnd is feasible and safe and does not appear to compromise the short-term oncological outcomes as defined by lymph node yields and margin positivity. is patient outcome compromised during the initial experience with robot-assisted radical cystectomy? • robot-assisted radical cystectomy (rarc) remains controversial in terms of oncologic outcomes, especially during the initial experience. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of initial experience of robotic cystectomy programs on oncologic outcomes and overall survival. • utilizing a prospectively maintained, single institution robotic cystectomy database, we identified 164 consecutive patients who underwent rarc since november 2005. evaluating the learning curve for robot-assisted laparoscopic radical cystectomy. we seek to describe the learning curve of robot-assisted laparoscopic radical cystectomy by evaluating some of the surgical, oncologic, and clinical outcomes in our initial experience with 50 consecutive patients undergoing this novel procedure. fifty consecutive patients (representing our initial experience with robot-assisted cystectomy) underwent radical cystectomy and urinary diversion from january 2006 to december 2007. this report helps to define the learning curve associated with robot-assisted laparoscopic radical cystectomy for bladder cancer.
Is the Retromandibular Transparotid Approach a Reliable Option for the Surgical Treatment of Condylar Fractures? [SEP] 
Appendectomy timing: Will delayed surgery increase the complications? [SEP] in-hospital delay of surgery increases the rate of complicated appendicitis in patients presenting with short duration of symptoms: a retrospective cohort study. in patients with a short patient time, delaying operation is associated with an increased rate of complicated appendicitis and this group of patients should be prioritized for early surgery. appendectomy timing: will delayed surgery increase the complications? this study investigated whether the time from emergency room registration to appendectomy (eta) would affect the incidence of perforation and postoperative complications in patients with acute appendicitis. safety of short, in-hospital delays before surgery for acute appendicitis: multicentre cohort study, systematic review, and meta-analysis. to determine safety of short in-hospital delays before appendicectomy. short organizational delays before appendicectomy may safely improve provision of acute surgical services. adjusted multivariable binary regression modelling showed that timing of operation was not related to risk of complex appendicitis [12-24 hours odds ratio (or) 0.98 (p = 0.869); 24-48 hours or 0.88 (p = 0.329); 48+ hours or 0.82 (p = 0.317)]. meta-analysis of 11 nonrandomized studies (8858 patients) revealed that delay of 12 to 24 hours after admission did not increase the risk of complex appendicitis (or 0.97, p = 0.750). short delays of less than 24 hours before appendicectomy were not associated with increased rates of complex pathology in selected patients.
Treatment of vitamin D deficiency in CKD patients with ergocalciferol: are current K/DOQI treatment guidelines adequate? [SEP] 
Comparing femoral version after intramedullary nailing performed by trauma-trained and non-trauma trained surgeons: is there a difference? [SEP] 
Does Viral Co-Infection Influence the Severity of Acute Respiratory Infection in Children? [SEP] triple viral respiratory co-infection with respiratory syncytial virus (rsv), human metapneumovirus (hmpv), and influenza a (h1n1) leading to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards) in an infant: a case report. viral respiratory infections are a major cause of morbidity in pediatrics. association of viral etiology with disease severity in bronchiolitis. bacterial co-detection in rsv-infected children was associated with significantly increased risks of specific symptoms, e.g., fever; elevated levels of biomarkers, e.g., c-reactive protein (crp); and poor outcomes including higher mortality rates, pediatric intensive care unit admissions, prolonged hospital stays, increased severity scores, greater antibiotic use, and heightened respiratory support requirements, including oxygen, invasive and non-invasive ventilation, and prolonged mechanical ventilation. respiratory bacterial co-detection in rsv-infected children is associated with distinct clinical symptoms, radiological findings, specific biomarkers, increased disease severity, and higher healthcare resource use. hospital-based investigation of acute respiratory infections in children under five: epidemiology, seasonality, and co-infections. while some studies have indicated that viral co-infections might exacerbate severity, others have found no notable difference when compared to single-virus infections, leaving the overall impact uncertain. clinical outcomes of acute viral lower respiratory infections in hospitalized children. in healthy children below the age of five years hospitalized with viral lrtis, multiple viral infections were associated with more severe outcomes, including longer duration of hospitalization and a higher likelihood of picu transfer. these findings call attention to the importance of considering viral co-infections in predicting disease severity and guiding clinical management, even in children with no risk factors.
Will clinical studies elucidate the connection between the length of storage of transfused red blood cells and clinical outcomes? [SEP] will clinical studies elucidate the connection between the length of storage of transfused red blood cells and clinical outcomes? the temporal pattern of the biologic mechanism linking red blood cell (rbc) storage duration with clinical outcomes is yet unknown. this study investigates how such a temporal pattern can affect the power of randomized controlled trials (rct) to detect a relevant clinical outcome mediated by the transfusion of stored rbcs. this study was a computer simulation of four rcts, each using a specific categorization of the rbc storage time. the trial's endpoint was evaluated assuming five hypothetical temporal patterns for the biologic mechanism linking rbc storage duration with clinical outcomes. power of rcts to unveil a significant association between rbc storage duration and clinical outcomes was critically dependent on a complex interaction among three factors: 1) the way the rbc storage time is categorized in the trial design, 2) the temporal pattern assumed for the rbc storage lesion, and 3) the age distribution of rbcs in the inventory from which they are picked up for transfusion. for most combinations of these factors, the power of rcts to detect a significant treatment effect was below 80%. all the four simulated rcts had a very low power to disclose a harmful clinical effect confined to last week of the maximum 42-day shelf life of stored rbcs. ongoing rcts may lack enough power to settle the issue of whether or not the transfusion of stored blood has a negative clinical impact. a precautionary reduction of the maximum storage time to 35 days is advisable.
Cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction in elderly patients: does admission to a tertiary center improve survival? [SEP] advanced cardiogenic-shock team versus standard care in cardiogenic shock: a single centre service evaluation project. cardiogenic shock (cs) complicating acute myocardial infarction (ami) carries high mortality. sex bias in admission to tertiary-care centres for acute myocardial infarction and cardiogenic shock. prognostic implication of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in patients with cardiogenic shock and acute myocardial infarction. to compare outcome in patients with acute myocardial infarction (mi) and cardiogenic shock (cs) presenting with and without out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (ohca). ohca is not an independent predictor of mortality in patients with acute mi complicated by cardiogenic shock. acute coronary syndrome in an intensive care unit of a tertiary care centre: the spectrum and coronary risk factors. myocardial infarction complicated with cardiogenic shock had very high mortality (83.33%). unequal access to interventional cardiac care in nova scotia in patients with acute myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock. the optimal treatment of cardiogenic shock (cs) complicating acute myocardial infarction (ami) remains controversial and continues to be associated with a high mortality rate.
Learning needs of postpartum women: does socioeconomic status matter? [SEP] paula a. silva, lisete m. mónico, pedro m. parreira, carla carvalho o243 work-life balance in health professionals and professors: comparative study of workers with shift work and fixed schedule carla carvalho, pedro m. parreira, lisete m. mónico, joana ruivo o244 technology literacy in self-management of diabetes vânia silva, paulino sousa, josé m. padilha o245 satisfaction with therapeutic education and its relationship with clinical variables in children with type 1 diabetes vera ferraz, graça aparício, joão duarte o246 nutrition-related knowledge in middle-age and older patients with type 2 diabetes carlos vasconcelos, antónio almeida, joel neves, telma correia, helena amorim, romeu mendes o247 validating the hls-eu-(pt) questionnaire to measure health literacy in adolescents (cradlisa project: hls-eu-pt) luís saboga-nunes, madalena cunha, carlos albuquerque o248 health education in people with coronary heart disease: experience of the cardiology department of a hospital on the outskirts of lisbon elsa s. pereira, leonino s. santos, ana s. reis, helena r. silva, joão rombo, jorge c. fernandes, patrícia fernandes o249 information and training needs of informal caregivers of individuals with stroke sequelae: a qualitative survey jaime ribeiro, catarina mangas, ana freire o250 prevention of psychoactive substances consumption in students from 6th grade of albergaria-a-velha´s school group sara silva, irene francisco, ana oliveira o251 promoting healthy sexuality: shared responsibility for family, youth and educators helena catarino, mª anjos dixe, mª clarisse louro o252 sexual risk behaviour in adolescents and young people saudade lopes, anjos dixe o253 knowledge of school staff on type 1 diabetes mª anjos dixe, eva menino, helena catarino, fátima soares, ana p. oliveira, sara gordo, teresa kraus o254 sexual health in adolescents: the impact of information search in literacy catarina tomás, paulo queirós, teresa rodrigues p123 improving basic life support skills in adolescents through a training programme pedro sousa, joão g. frade, catarina lobão p124 difficulties in sexual education reported by basic education teachers in the city of foz do iguaçu - brazil cynthia b. moura, laysa c. dreyer, vanize meneghetti, priscila p. cabral p125 breast cancer survivors: subjects and resources for information. a qualitative systematic review francisca pinto, paulino sousa, mª raquel esteves p126 relationship between health literacy and prevalence of sti in biomedical laboratory science students sofia galvão, ite tytgat, isabel andrade, nádia osório, ana valado, armando caseiro, antónio gabriel, anabela c. martins, fernando mendes p127 health literacy, risk behaviours and sexually transmitted diseases among blood donors mónica casas-novas, helena bernardo, isabel andrade, gracinda sousa, ana p. sousa, clara rocha, pedro belo, nádia osório, ana valado, armando caseiro, antónio gabriel, anabela c. martins, fernando mendes p128 promoting literacy in pregnancy health-care fátima martins, montserrat pulido-fuentes p129 the lifestyles of the operating assistants of education isabel barroso, gil cabral, m. joão monteiro, conceição rainho p130 experiences of service-learning health and the literary art: reflections about the health education alessandro prado, yara m. carvalho p131 life long swimming – a european erasmus + project maria campos, liliana moreira, josé ferreira, ana teixeira, luís rama learning needs of postpartum women: does socioeconomic status matter? little is known about how information needs change over time in the early postpartum period or about how these needs might differ given socioeconomic circumstances. this study's aim was to examine women's concerns at the time of hospital discharge and unmet learning needs as self-identified at 4 weeks after discharge. women who had given vaginal birth to a single live infant, and who were being discharged at the same time as their infant, assuming care of their infant, competent to give consent, and able to communicate in one of the study languages were eligible. breastfeeding and signs of infant illness were the most frequently identified concerns by women, regardless of their socioeconomic status. although few differences in identified concerns were evident, women of low socioeconomic status were significantly more likely to report unmet learning needs related to 9 of 10 topics compared with women of higher socioeconomic status. for most topics, significantly more women of both groups identified learning needs 4 weeks after discharge compared with the number who identified corresponding concerns while in hospital. the findings highlight the need for accessible and appropriate community-based information resources for women in the postpartum period, especially for those of low socioeconomic status.
Pitfalls in urinary stone identification using CT attenuation values: are we getting the same information on different scanner models? [SEP] pitfalls in urinary stone identification using ct attenuation values: are we getting the same information on different scanner models? evaluate the capability of different computed tomography scanners to determine urinary stone compositions based on ct attenuation values and to evaluate potential differences between each model. 241 human urinary stones were obtained and their biochemical composition determined. four different ct scanners (siemens, philips, gems and toshiba) were evaluated. for all tested ct scanners, when the classification of the various types of stones was arranged according to the mean ct-attenuation values and to the confidence interval, large overlappings between stone types were highlighted. the t-paired test showed that most stone types could not be identified. some types of stones presented mean ct attenuation values significantly different from one ct scanner to another. at 80kv, the mean ct attenuation values obtained with the toshiba aquilion were significantly different from those obtained with the siemens sensation. at 120kv mean ct attenuation values of uric acid, cystine and struvite stones obtained with the philips model are significantly different from those obtained with the siemens and the toshiba but equal to those obtained with the ge 64. furthermore, the ct scan analysis and hu evaluation appears to gather insufficient information in order to characterize and identify the composition of renal stones.
Laminoplasty outcomes: is there a difference between patients with degenerative stenosis and those with ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament? [SEP] 
Immunohistochemical assessment of steroid hormone receptors in tissues of the anal canal. Implications for anal incontinence? [SEP] immunohistochemical assessment of steroid hormone receptors in tissues of the anal canal. implications for anal incontinence? a prerequisite for a hormonal influence on anal continence in women is the presence of hormone receptors in the tissues of the anal canal. using immunohistochemical techniques, we demonstrated and localized estrogen and progesterone receptors (er, pr) in tissue sections of the anal canal. thirty-five specimens of the anorectal region from 21 patients (14 women, seven men) were examined histologically for smooth muscle (present in specimens from ten females and in seven males), striated muscle (present in three females and five males), and perimuscular connective tissue (present in 12 females and seven males). estrogen receptors were found in the smooth muscle cells of the internal sphincter of all females (10/10) and in four of the seven males. expression of er is a constitutional feature of the connective tissue and smooth muscle cells of the anal continence organ. estrogen receptors and pr are not detectable in the striated muscle fibers of the external anal sphincter in either sex. the presence of er in the stroma and smooth muscles of the anal canal suggests that these tissues are targets for estrogen. this constitutes a theoretical basis for the beneficial effects of estrogen and progestin replacement on anal continence in postmenopausal women.
Is acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia the expression of immune dysregulation? [SEP] is acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia the expression of immune dysregulation? acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia (afop) is a recently described histologic pattern of diffuse pulmonary disease. in this study, we describe the first nonfatal afop in a child and review the literature. a 10-year-old boy developed very severe aplastic anemia (vsaa) after being admitted to our hospital with a fulminant hepatic failure of unknown origin. a chest computed tomography scan revealed multiple lung nodules and a biopsy of a pulmonary lesion showed all the signs of afop. we started immunosuppressive therapy with antithymocyte globulin and cyclosporine to treat vsaa. subsequent chest computed tomography scans showed a considerable diminution of the lung lesions but the vsaa did not improve until we performed hematopoietic stem cell transplantation 5 months later. aplastic anemia is associated with a variety of autoimmune syndromes. the sequence of events in our patient suggests that the hepatic failure, afop, and the vsaa may all have been part of an autoimmune syndrome. afop could be the result of immune dysregulation in this pediatric case with favorable outcome after immunosuppressive therapy and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
Hypotension in patients with coronary disease: can profound hypotensive events cause myocardial ischaemic events? [SEP] his condition rapidly deteriorated into profound cardiogenic shock, characterized by severe hypotension refractory to maximal vasopressor support, and a third-degree atrioventricular block necessitating temporary cardiac pacing. hypotension in patients with coronary disease: can profound hypotensive events cause myocardial ischaemic events? to determine whether anginal episodes might be related to extremes of hypotension in patients with ischaemic heart disease taking drugs to treat angina and heart failure. observational study of patients with ischaemic heart disease attending an urban tertiary referral cardiology centre. hypotension induced ischaemic (hii) events were defined as episodes of st segment ischaemia occurring at least one minute after an ambulatory blood pressure measurement (systolic/diastolic) below 100/65 mm hg during the day, or 90/50 mm hg at night. 25 suitable patients were enrolled, and 107 hypotensive events were documented. fourteen hii events occurred in eight patients, with 13 of the 14 preceded by a fall in diastolic pressure (median diastolic pressure 57.5 mm hg, interquartile range 11, maximum 72 mm hg, minimum 45 mm hg), and six preceded by a fall in systolic pressure (chi(2) = 11.9, p < 0.001). st events were significantly associated with preceding hypotensive events (chi(2) = 40.2, p < 0.0001). in patients with ischaemic heart disease and hypotension, symptomatic and silent ischaemia occurred in a temporally causal relation with hypotension, particularly for diastolic pressures, suggesting that patients with coronary disease may be susceptible to ischaemic events incurred as a result of low blood pressure caused by excessive hypotensive drug treatment. a hypotensive response requiring cessation of the test was seen in one patient.
An HIV1/2 point of care test on sputum for screening TB/HIV co-infection in Central India - Will it work? [SEP] an hiv1/2 point of care test on sputum for screening tb/hiv co-infection in central india - will it work? to determine whether the oraquick® hiv-1/2 assay (orasure technologies, inc., bethlehem, pa, usa) in sputum is a valid tool for hiv surveillance among tb patients. a cross sectional study was carried out on sputa of patients diagnosed with tuberculosis. sputa were tested for antibodies to hiv using oraquick® hiv-1/2 assay (orasure technologies, inc., bethlehem, pa, usa). the results were compared with results of serum elisa. compared to serum elisa, the oraquick® hiv-1/2 assay in sputum specimens reported 90% sensitivity (9/10) and 100% specificity (307/307), with a positive predictive value of 100% (95%ci: 66.37%-100.00%) and a negative predictive value of 99.68% (95%ci: 98.20%-99.99%). this testing method may provide a useful strategy for conducting hiv surveillance in possible co-infected tb patients at peripheral centres. since there is no investment on infrastructure, it may be possible for paramedical health professionals to carry out the test, particularly in areas with low hiv endemicity.
Do inhaled corticosteroids affect perception of dyspnea during bronchoconstriction in asthma? [SEP] do inhaled corticosteroids affect perception of dyspnea during bronchoconstriction in asthma? some of the disagreements on the perception of dyspnea (pd) during bronchoconstriction in asthma patients could depend on the interrelationships among the following: (1) the influence of baseline airflow obstruction on the patient's ability to detect any further increase in airway resistance; (2) the effect of eosinophilic inflammation on the airway; (3) bronchial hyperresponsiveness (bhr); and (4) the effect of inhaled corticosteroids (icss). we hypothesized that if the inflammation of the airway wall influences to some extent and in some way the pd in asthma patients, icss reverse the effect of airway inflammation on the pd. we studied 100 asthma patients who were divided into the following four groups: patients with obstruction who were either ics-naive (group i) or were treated with icss (group ii); and nonobstructed patients who were either ics-naive (group iii) or were treated with icss (group iv). pd on the visual analog scale (vas) was assessed during a methacholine-induced fev(1) decrease and specifically was quantified as the vas slope and score at an fev(1) decrease of 5 to 20%. eosinophil counts in induced sputum samples also were performed. in the patients as a whole, bhr related to pd, but age, clinical score, duration of the disease, and presence of baseline airway obstruction did not. in patients with obstruction who were treated with icss, eosinophil counts related to pd negatively. the post hoc analysis carried out dividing the patients into ics-treated and ics-naive, showed that in the former group eosinophil counts and bhr proved to be factors negatively associated with pd, while in the latter group eosinophil counts were positively associated with pd. we have shown that eosinophilic inflammation of the airway wall may increase pd and that the association of eosinophil counts with icss may result in lessening the pd.
Is routine chest radiography after transbronchial biopsy necessary? [SEP] avoiding routine chest radiography after transbronchial biopsy is safe. is routine chest radiography after transbronchial biopsy necessary? pneumothorax following flexible bronchoscopy (fb) with transbronchial biopsy (tbb) occurs in 1 to 6% of cases. routine chest radiography (cxr) following tbb is therefore requested by most pulmonologists in an attempt to detect complications, particularly pneumothorax. the objective of this study was to determine if routine cxr after bronchoscopy and tbb is necessary. we conclude that routine cxr after bronchoscopy with tbb is necessary only in patients with symptoms suggestive of pneumothorax. pneumothorax following transbronchial biopsy. low diagnostic yield with routine chest roentgenograms. a chest roentgenogram is commonly obtained after a transbronchial biopsy to exclude a pneumothorax. given this low incidence of unsuspected pneumothorax, we conclude that routine chest roentgenograms have a low diagnostic yield and may not be necessary in all patients after fluoroscopically guided tbb.
Is it safe to perform rectal anastomosis in gynaecological debulking surgery without a diverting stoma? [SEP] is it safe to perform rectal anastomosis in gynaecological debulking surgery without a diverting stoma? colorectal resection is frequently performed during cytoreductive surgery for gynaecological malignancy. the aim of this study was to assess the safety of colorectal anastomosis, and especially low rectal anastomosis, in the absence of a protective stoma in patients with gynaecological cancer and peritoneal metastasis. all patients who underwent a colorectal resection during cytoreduction were included in the study. the primary outcome was anastomotic leakage in the presence or absence of a diverting stoma. secondary outcome parameters were complications and reoperations. in the period of study, 43 major colorectal procedures were performed on 37 women. the most common colorectal procedure was low rectal resection (n = 22; 59%) followed by anterior rectal resection (n = 7; 19%) and sigmoid resection (n = 4; 11%). in three (8%) patients, a diverting loop ileostomy was created. low rectal resection during debulking procedures for gynaecological cancers with peritoneal carcinomatosis can safely be performed by an experienced surgeon without a diverting stoma.
Does angiotensin-converting enzyme-1 (ACE-1) gene polymorphism lead to chronic kidney disease among hypertensive patients? [SEP] does angiotensin-converting enzyme-1 (ace-1) gene polymorphism lead to chronic kidney disease among hypertensive patients? hypertension is one of the important contributing factors linked with both causation and development of kidney disease. the present study was aimed to explore genetic polymorphism in ace-1 gene as a risk factor for ckd among hypertensive patients. ninety were hypertensive patients with ckd taken as cases, whereas 210 hypertensive patients without ckd were taken as controls. genotyping of ace gene was done by pcr technique. mean age was higher in the control group (p < 0.05). blood urea and serum creatinine levels were statistically significant in the two genotypes (p < 0.05). total and hdl cholesterol were statistically significant for dd genotype of ace gene (or = 1.42, 95% ci = 0.72-2.81). similarly, the risk for ckd among hypertensive patients was also associated with d allele of ace gene (or = 1.25, 95% ci = 0.86-1.79). it is concluded that ace-dd genotype may be a risk factor for the causation and development of chronic kidney failure among hypertensive patients.
Does laparoscopic antireflux surgery improve quality of life in patients whose gastro-oesophageal reflux disease is well controlled with medical therapy? [SEP] does laparoscopic antireflux surgery improve quality of life in patients whose gastro-oesophageal reflux disease is well controlled with medical therapy? both medical therapy and laparoscopic antireflux surgery have been shown to improve quality of life in gastro-oesophageal reflux disease. although patients with poor symptom control or side effects on medical therapy might be expected to have improved quality of life after surgery, our aim was to determine, for the first time, whether patients whose symptoms are well controlled on medical therapy but who decide to undergo surgery (patient preference) would experience improved quality of life. retrospective analysis of our patient database (1998-2003, n=313) identified 60 patients who underwent laparoscopic antireflux surgery for the indication of patient preference. two generic quality-of-life questionnaires (short form 36 and psychological general well-being index) and a gastrointestinal symptom questionnaire (gastrointestinal symptom rating scale) were completed preoperatively, while on medical therapy, and 6 months after surgery. thirty-eight patients completed all three questionnaires at both time intervals: 31 males, seven females; mean age 42 (15-66) years. preoperative scores while on medical therapy were significantly improved after surgery: short form 36 median physical composite scores 52.0 and 54.0 (p=0.034) and mental composite scores 51.0 and 56.0 (p=0.020); psychological general well-being median total scores 78.0 and 90.0 (p=0.0001); gastrointestinal symptom rating scale median total scores 2.13 and 1.73 (p=0.0007) and reflux scores 2.50 and 1.00 (p<0.0001). laparoscopic antireflux surgery significantly improved quality of life in reflux patients whose symptoms were well controlled on medical therapy. although on the basis of a noncomparative trial with a relatively short follow-up period, we believe such patients should be considered for laparoscopic antireflux surgery.
Is semi-closed endarterectomy of the superficial femoral artery combined with a short venous bypass in case of insufficient venous material an acceptable alternative for limb-threatening ischemia? [SEP] 
Can biofeedback training of psychophysiological responses enhance athletes' sport performance? [SEP] can biofeedback training of psychophysiological responses enhance athletes' sport performance? in recent years, biofeedback has become increasingly popular for its proven success in peak performance training - the psychophysiological preparation of athletes for high-stakes sport competitions, such as the olympic games. the aim of this research was to test whether an 8-week period of exposure to biofeedback training could improve the psychophysiological control over competitive anxiety and enhance athletic performance in participating subjects. the biofeedback device, nexus 10, was used to detect and measure the psychophysiological responses of athletes. in between, the experimental group received training in biofeedback techniques. we then calculated the overall percentage of athletes in the experimental group compared with those in the control group who were able to control respiration, skin conductance, heart rate, blood flow amplitude, heart rate variability, and heart respiration coherence. one year following completion of the initial study, we questioned athletes from the experimental group, to determine whether they continued to use these skills and if they could detect any subsequent enhancement in their athletic performance. we demonstrated that a greater number of participants in the experimental group were able to successfully control their psychophysiological parameters, in comparison to their peers in the control group. one year following completion of the training program, all participants from the experimental group indicated that they were still using the biofeedback - psycho-regulation skills. furthermore, these participants uniformly reported believing that these skills had enhanced their athletic performance and general well-being.
Do cytokines have any role in epilepsy? [SEP] infantile epileptic spasms syndrome (iess) is a severe age-specific epileptic encephalopathy with unclear pathogenesis, and neuroinflammation is involved in its progression. neuroinvasion and inflammation sustain cytokine networks implicated in disorders such as multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and autoimmune-associated epilepsy. diosmetin's impact on epileptic seizures: a study on inflammatory pathways and neuronal health. inflammatory cytokine signatures in epilepsy: distinguishing drug-resistant from drug-responsive patients. emerging evidence has positioned neuroinflammation as a central mechanism in the pathogenesis of epilepsy and in the development of drug resistance. cytokines such as il-1β, il-6, il-8, il-17, and il-18 have been implicated in epileptogenesis, yet their clinical significance in distinguishing drug-resistant epilepsy (dre) from drug-responsive epilepsy (dresp) remains underexplored. all five cytokines were significantly elevated in epilepsy patients compared to controls (p < 0.001), and further increased levels were observed in the dre group relative to the dresp group. elevated serum levels of il-1β, il-6, il-8, il-17, and il-18 in epilepsy-particularly in drug-resistant cases-support the role of neuroinflammation in epileptogenesis and treatment refractoriness. microglial polarization imbalance between pro-inflammatory m1 and anti-inflammatory m2 phenotypes is a key mechanism in epilepsy-related neuroinflammation. given the emerging importance of immune dysregulation in epilepsy, identifying immune-related biomarkers may improve diagnosis and guide treatment strategies.
Cue-induced behavioural activation: a novel model of alcohol craving? [SEP] cue-induced reinstatement of both alcohol- and cocaine-seeking behaviour was also abolished by administration of ro61-8048. the calpain inhibitor a-705253 (3-10 mg/kg) was tested in a model of cue-induced reinstatement of alcohol-seeking behavior in post-dependent wistar rats and in an alcohol deprivation effect (ade) model in long-term alcohol drinking wistar rats, two behavioral models for alcohol-seeking and relapse, respectively. acute treatment with a-705253 dose-dependently reduced cue-induced reinstatement of alcohol-seeking behavior. furthermore, effects of osu6162 on ethanol seeking behavior were evaluated with the progressive ratio and cue-induced reinstatement paradigms. cue-induced behavioural activation: a novel model of alcohol craving? alcohol-associated cues elicit craving in human addicts but little is known about craving mechanisms. to develop a model to study the effects of environmental cues on alcohol consumption in animals not experiencing withdrawal or relapse. rats given 5 min of alcohol-associated cues responded significantly more on the active lever (26% increase) and consumed more alcohol as verified by increased blood alcohol levels (8.9 mm versus control 7.5 mm). after a 10-day break in training, 5 min of alcohol-associated cues still increased alcohol consumption (29% increase) and the cue effect could be dose-dependently blocked by naltrexone (143% decrease at 0.03 mg/kg). cue-induced behavioural activation was specific to alcohol cues, reproducible, persistent and could be blocked by naltrexone, and its correlation with human self-report of craving makes it a potentially useful model for studying alcohol craving.
Can routine offering of influenza vaccination in office-based settings reduce racial and ethnic disparities in adult influenza vaccination? [SEP] can routine offering of influenza vaccination in office-based settings reduce racial and ethnic disparities in adult influenza vaccination? influenza vaccination remains below the federally targeted levels outlined in healthy people 2020. compared to non-hispanic whites, racial and ethnic minorities are less likely to be vaccinated for influenza, despite being at increased risk for influenza-related complications and death. also, vaccinated minorities are more likely to receive influenza vaccinations in office-based settings and less likely to use non-medical vaccination locations compared to non-hispanic white vaccine users. to assess the number of "missed opportunities" for influenza vaccination in office-based settings by race and ethnicity and the magnitude of potential vaccine uptake and reductions in racial and ethnic disparities in influenza vaccination if these "missed opportunities" were eliminated. we collected data on influenza vaccination, frequency and timing of healthcare visits, and self-reported compliance with a potential provider recommendation for vaccination during the 2009-2010 influenza season. "missed opportunities" for seasonal influenza vaccination in office-based settings were defined as the number of unvaccinated respondents who reported at least one healthcare visit in the fall and winter of 2009-2010 and indicated their willingness to get vaccinated if a healthcare provider strongly recommended it. the frequency of "missed opportunities" for influenza vaccination in office-based settings was significantly higher among racial and ethnic minorities than non-hispanic whites. eliminating these "missed opportunities" could have cut racial and ethnic disparities in influenza vaccination by roughly one half. improved office-based practices regarding influenza vaccination could significantly impact healthy people 2020 goals by increasing influenza vaccine uptake and reducing corresponding racial and ethnic disparities.
Colorectal cancer in young patients: is it a distinct clinical entity? [SEP] 
Long-term significance of postictal psychotic episodes II. Are they predictive of interictal psychotic episodes? [SEP] long-term significance of postictal psychotic episodes ii. are they predictive of interictal psychotic episodes? the aim of this study was to determine whether postictal psychotic episodes (pipe) are predictive of the development of interictal psychotic episodes (ipe). this was a retrospective study of 18 consecutive adults with a partial seizure disorder and pipe (study group) and 36 patients with a partial seizure disorder but without pipe (control group). these two groups were compared with respect to the likelihood of developing ipe over an 8-year follow-up period and the variables operant in the development of ipe. statistical analyses consisted of logistic regression models to identify the variables predictive of the development of ipe. predictors included: number and location of ictal foci, seizure type, etiology, age at seizure onset, duration of seizure disorder, mri abnormalities, and psychiatric history prior to the index video/eeg monitoring (other than pipe). seven patients with pipe and one control patient went on to develop an ipe. predictors of ipe in univariate logistic regression analyses included a history of pipe (p=0.006), male gender (p=0.028), and having bilateral ictal foci (p=0.048). a history of pipe may be a risk factor for the development of ipe.
Do primary care physicians underprescribe antibiotics for peptic ulcer disease? [SEP] do primary care physicians underprescribe antibiotics for peptic ulcer disease? to determine how often primary care physicians prescribe eradication therapy for peptic ulcer disease (pud) and nonulcer dyspepsia (nud). during a 2-year period (1998-2000) we analyzed data concerning patients with pud or nud seen by 80 italian primary care physicians uniformly distributed throughout the country. we classified patients as having a definitive or a presumptive diagnosis on the basis of the completeness of the diagnostic workup and interpreted the prescription of antibiotics for dyspepsia as evidence of attempted eradication of helicobacter pylori. consecutive ambulatory patients. of 2162 patients with pud, 596 (27.6%) received eradication therapy; of 4704 patients with nud, however, only 94 (2%) received this treatment (p =.0001). a total of 341 (37.7%) of 904 pud patients with a definitive diagnosis were given eradication therapy and 255 (20.3%) of 1258 pud patients with a presumptive diagnosis were given therapy (p &lt.0001). in nud patients, 7 of 743 (0.9%) with a definitive diagnosis received eradication therapy, while 87 (2.2%) of 3961 of those with a presumptive diagnosis were given the same therapy (p =.025). while italian primary care physicians appropriately target eradication therapy for h pylori infection in patients with peptic ulcer disease rather than nonulcer disease, the intervention was still underused in these patients. improvements in this prescribing behavior are needed.
Blunt trauma in intoxicated patients: is computed tomography of the abdomen always necessary? [SEP] is clinician assessment accurate or is routine pan-body ct needed in the stable intoxicated trauma patient? we sought to determine if clinician suspicion of injury was useful in predicting injuries found on pan-body computed tomography (pbct) in clinically intoxicated patients. we prospectively enrolled awake, intoxicated patients with low-energy mechanism of injury. for awake, stable intoxicated patients after falls and assaults, clinician index of suspicion was most useful to guide the need for ct imaging in the neck and abdomen/pelvis. blunt trauma in intoxicated patients: is computed tomography of the abdomen always necessary? physical examination to detect abdominal injuries has been considered unreliable in alcohol-intoxicated trauma patients. computed tomography (ct) plays the primary role in these abdominal evaluations. we reviewed medical records of all blunt trauma patients admitted to our trauma service from january 1, 1992, to march 31, 1998. a significant association was found between major chest injury and abdominal injury. the incidence of abdominal injury in intoxicated, hemodynamically stable, blunt trauma patients with a normal abdominal examination and normal mentation is low.
Chronic progressive cervical myelopathy with HTLV-I infection: Variant form of HAM/TSP? [SEP] [chronic progressive cervical myelopathy with htlv-i infection: variant form of ham/tsp]. we report four patients with slowly progressive cervical myelopathy. the four patients had several features in common; 1) progressive cervical myelopathy with a duration of several months to years, 2) abnormal lesions in the cervical to upper thoracic cord levels with or without gadolinium enhancement, 3) anti-htlv-i antibodies were positive both in serum and csf, 4) high levels of htlv-i proviral load in pbmc. the calculated risk of ham/tsp in two patients showed a high value, comparable to those of ham/tsp, and higher than those of healthy htlv-i carrier. because the clinical and laboratory findings of these four cases show similarities to those of ham/tsp, we propose that these four cases may be a variant form of ham/tsp. chronic progressive cervical myelopathy with htlv-i infection: variant form of ham/tsp? to investigate the role of human t-lymphotrophic virus type i (htlv-i) infection in four patients who developed slowly progressive myelopathy with abnormal mri lesions in the cervical cord levels. clinical and neuroradiologic examinations were performed, and the odds that an htlv-i-infected individual of specified genotype, age, and provirus load had htlv-i-associated myelopathy (ham)/tropical spastic paraparesis (tsp) were calculated. two of the three patients examined showed high risk of developing ham/tsp in virologic and immunologic aspects. these four cases may belong to a variant form of ham/tsp, predominantly involving the cervical cord levels.
Gender difference in survival of resected non-small cell lung cancer: histology-related phenomenon? [SEP] gender difference in survival of resected non-small cell lung cancer: histology-related phenomenon? it remains controversial whether there is a gender difference in survival of patients with resected non-small cell lung cancer. we retrospectively analyzed 2770 patients (1689 men and 1081 women) with non-small cell lung cancer who underwent pulmonary resection between 1995 and 2005 at the national cancer center hospital, tokyo. a gender difference in survival was studied in all patients, in those divided according to histology or pathologic stage, and in propensity-matched gender pairs. the proportions of adenocarcinoma and pathologic stage i in women were greater than those in men (93.6% vs 61.7% and 71.4% vs 58.6%, respectively) (p < .001). overall 5-year survival of women was better than that of men (81% vs 70%, p < .001). in adenocarcinoma, the overall 5-year survival for women was better than that for men in pathologic stage i (95% vs 87%, p < .001) and in pathologic stage ii or higher (58% vs 51%, p = .017). in non-adenocarcinoma, there was no significant gender difference in survival in pathologic stage i (p = .313) or pathologic stage ii or higher (p = .770). the variables such as age, smoking status, histology, and pathologic stage were used for propensity score matching, and survival analysis of propensity score-matched gender pairs did not show a significant difference (p = .69). a gender difference in survival was observed only in the adenocarcinoma subset, suggesting pathobiology in adenocarcinoma in women might be different from that of men.
Is lumbar drainage of postoperative cerebrospinal fluid fistula after spine surgery effective? [SEP] is lumbar drainage of postoperative cerebrospinal fluid fistula after spine surgery effective? the aim of this paper was to assess the efficacy and safeness of bed rest and lumbar drainage in treating postoperative csf fistula. postoperative cerebrospinal fluid (csf) fistula is a well-known complication in spine surgery which lead to a significant change in length of hospitalization and possible postoperative complications. lumbar drainage seems to be effective and safe both in preventing csf fistula in cases of large dural tears and debilitated/irradiated patients and in treating csf leaks. the craniospinal magnetic resonance imagining revealed subarachnoid-pleural fistula and lumbar external cerebrospinal fluid drainage was performed. cerebrospinal fistulas and pseudomeningoceles can occur after lumbar spinal surgery, and are sometimes refractory to direct repair, external drainage, and blood patches. brain stem and cerebellar dysfunction after lumbar spinal fluid drainage: case report. lumbar spinal fluid drainage is a common procedure to reduce the risks of cerebrospinal fluid (csf) fistula after skull base fractures or various transdural neurosurgical procedures. this case report illustrates the development of a cerebrospinal fluid fistula and pseudomeningocele in a patient after lumbar discectomy and fusion with instrumentation. postoperative pseudomeningocele and cerebrospinal fluid fistula in patients with spinal instrumentation can be treated successfully with epidural blood patch and a brief course (4 days) of spinal drainage.
Is obesity a risk factor for wheezing among adolescents? [SEP] twenty percent of eis were attributable to asthma, 18% to physical inactivity, and 7% to obesity, with a combined paf of 44%. only underweight and overweight/obese girls had lower and higher, respectively, fev our findings suggest a different risk of respiratory morbidity between girls and boys partly modified by bmi or allergic sensitization, not ethnicity, and that puberty has a positive effect on lung function measures in both sexes. obesity is associated with increased incidence and severity of asthma, whereas exposure to small allergen particles leads to severe disease. current lifestyle and risk for asthma: sedentary lifestyle, obesity, and ets. the increasing prevalence of asthma necessitates consideration of modifiable asthma risk factors, such as sedentary lifestyle, overweight/obesity, and environmental tobacco smoke (ets) exposure. overweight (bmi [body mass index] > 25 kg/m the findings support the importance of sedentary lifestyle, obesity, and ets exposure as asthma risk factors in young adolescents experiencing asthma symptoms. overweight and obesity are risk factors for increased asthma morbidity among children, and overweight/obese children with asthma may be more susceptible to air pollution. among current wheezers, higher bmi was associated with a lower relative risk of joining the trajectory with improvement in airflow obstruction (rrr 0·69 [95% ci 0·49-0·95]), whereas among non-wheezers, higher bmi increased the relative risk of being in the improved airflow obstruction trajectory (1·38 [1·04-1·85]). interventions to optimise healthy weight, including tackling overweight and obesity (particularly among children with wheezing) as well as treating underweight among non-wheezers, could help to improve lung health across the lifespan. however, this association is influenced by lifestyle factors such as physical activity, obesity, diet, and exposure to indoor allergens.
Dose end-tidal carbon dioxide measurement correlate with arterial carbon dioxide in extremely low birth weight infants in the first week of life? [SEP] dose end-tidal carbon dioxide measurement correlate with arterial carbon dioxide in extremely low birth weight infants in the first week of life? to study the correlation and agreement between end-tidal carbon dioxide (etco2) and arterial carbon dioxide (paco(2)) in ventilated extremely low birth weight (elbw) infants in the first week of life. retrospective chart review of all elbw (<1,000 g) infants admitted to a level iii nicu from january 2003 to december 2003. data collected included demographic details and simultaneous etco(2) (mainstream capnography) and arterial blood gas values (ph, paco(2), pao(2)). there were 754 end-tidal and arterial co(2) pairs from 31 elbw infants (21 male and 10 female). the overall bias was 5.6 +/- 6.9 mmhg (95% c.i. the intraclass correlation coefficient was 0.81. using etco2 ranges of 30 to 50 mmhg, the capnographic method was able to identify 84% of instances where paco(2) was between 35 (<35 = hypocarbia) and 55 mmhg (>55= hypercapnia). there is good correlation and agreement between end-tidal co(2) and arterial co(2) in elbw infants in the etco(2) range 30-50 mmhg. end-tidal co(2) monitoring can be helpful in trending or for screening abnormal paco(2) values in elbw infants in first week of life.
Is CA72-4 a useful biomarker in differential diagnosis between ovarian endometrioma and epithelial ovarian cancer? [SEP] is ca72-4 a useful biomarker in differential diagnosis between ovarian endometrioma and epithelial ovarian cancer? the aim of this study was to establish if the serum marker ca72-4 could be helpful in the differential diagnosis between ovarian endometriosis and epithelial ovarian cancer. serums ca125 and ca72-4 were measured in 72 patients with ovarian endometriomas and 55 patients with ovarian cancer. a marked difference in ca72-4 values was observed between women with ovarian cancer (71.0%) and patients with endometriosis (13.8%) (p < 0.0001). this study suggests that ca72-4 determination can be useful to confirm the benign nature of ovarian endometriomas in women with high ca125 levels. the use of he4, ca125 and ca72-4 biomarkers for differential diagnosis between ovarian endometrioma and epithelial ovarian cancer. the aim of this study was to establish a panel of complementary biomarkers that could be helpful in the differential diagnosis between ovarian endometriosis or other ovarian benign masses and ovarian cancer. blood samples from 50 healthy women, 17 patients with benign ovarian tumors, 57 patients with ovarian endometrioma and 39 patients with ovarian cancer were analyzed and serum values were measured for the following biomarkers: ca125, he4 and ca72-4. a marked difference in ca72-4 values was observed between women with ovarian cancer (67%) and those with endometriosis (p < 0.05). the results of the study suggest that he4 and ca72-4 determination is the best approach to confirm the benign nature of ovarian endometrioma in women with high ca125 levels.
Preservation of the PCL when performing cruciate-retaining TKA: Is the tibial tuberosity a reliable predictor of the PCL footprint location? [SEP] 
The English antibiotic awareness campaigns: did they change the public's knowledge of and attitudes to antibiotic use? [SEP] our findings show that community-based interventions can enhance knowledge and awareness of appropriate antibiotic use and amr risks among different population groups. to determine what campaigns have been conducted and which reported being effective at improving awareness of antimicrobial resistance and changing behaviour around antimicrobial use in members of the public. assessing the impact of a national social marketing campaign for antimicrobial resistance on public awareness, attitudes, and behaviour, and as a supportive tool for healthcare professionals, england, 2017 to 2019. knowledge, attitudes and behaviour of egyptians towards antibiotic use in the community: can we do better? in the usa and europe, annual campaigns raise awareness of antibiotic misuse hazards and promote their judicial use. this study assessed the knowledge of the public in alexandria, egypt of antibiotic misuse risks and their habits towards antibiotic use, in addition to conducting a campaign to increase awareness of the safe use of antibiotics. does antibiotic awareness campaigns exposure decrease intention to demand antibiotic treatment? the effect of antibiotic awareness campaigns (aacs) on consumer behaviour has been documented in the literature with mixed results. perceptions and attitudes about antibiotic resistance in the general public and general practitioners in france. these include national awareness campaigns for the general public, and supporting changes in terms of antibiotic prescription for healthcare practitioners.
Does increased nerve length within the treatment volume improve trigeminal neuralgia radiosurgery? [SEP] effect of radiation dose on the outcomes of gamma knife treatment for trigeminal neuralgia: a multi-factor analysis. to analyze the effect of different radiation variables on the outcomes of treatment for trigeminal neuralgia (tn). at their last follow up, 21 patients (28.8%), 22 patients (30.1%), 19 patients (26%), 6 patients (8.2%), and 5 patients (6.8%) had grade i-v pain outcomes, respectively, and the average mean dose delivered to the trigeminal nerve root, average integrated dose (mj) and nerve root volume in prepontine cistern were 45.29 gy, 4,26 mj, and 98.47 mm 3 , respectively. the pain relief rate was not significantly improved by a higher amount of integrated dose received by the trigeminal nerve root in prepontine cistern, however, incidence of trigeminal nerve toxicity was increased (p = 0.005). our limited results suggested that a higher integrated dose might increase the incidence of trigeminal nerve toxicity with no significant benefits in pain relief when the maximal doses were within 75-90 gy. does increased nerve length within the treatment volume improve trigeminal neuralgia radiosurgery? to test the hypothesis that increasing the nerve length within the treatment volume for trigeminal neuralgia radiosurgery would improve pain relief. eighty-seven patients with typical trigeminal neuralgia were randomized to undergo retrogasserian gamma knife radiosurgery (75 gy maximal dose with 4-mm diameter collimators) using either one (n = 44) or two (n = 43) isocenters. improved pain relief correlated with younger age (p = 0.025) and fewer prior procedures (p = 0.039) and complications (numbness or paresthesias) correlated with the nerve length irradiated (p = 0.018). increasing the treatment volume to include a longer nerve length for trigeminal neuralgia radiosurgery does not significantly improve pain relief but may increase complications.
Is the affinity column-mediated immunoassay method suitable as an alternative to the microparticle enzyme immunoassay method as a blood tacrolimus assay? [SEP] 
Should tumor depth be included in prognostication of soft tissue sarcoma? [SEP] effect of timing of first consultation with a sarcoma specialist following unplanned excision: oncologic outcomes of patients with soft-tissue sarcomas. of 397 patients treated for soft-tissue sarcoma from 2012 to 2020 at 2 tertiary centers, 117 underwent ue followed by later tumor bed excision and were analyzed. sarcomas are heterogeneous malignant tumors originating from mesenchymal tissues, presenting substantial diagnostic and therapeutic challenges. enhancing diagnosis and prognosis by assessing the clinical, morphological, and behavior aspects in soft tissue sarcomas. soft-tissue sarcomas (stss) are an uncommon and diverse group of cancers, consisting of more than 80 different kinds, each showing unique mesenchymal differentiation as described by the world health organization (who). key prognostic markers for metastasis and mortality risk include tumor size larger than 5 cm, histologic grade, and sarcoma subtype. clinicopathological profile and survival outcomes in patients with localised extremity synovial sarcomas. we analysed the clinical profiles and prognostic factors of extremity synovial sarcoma patients in order to study their clinical journey. on multivariate analysis, tumour size, depth, omission of radiotherapy and bone invasion were found to be the adverse prognostic factors. tumour size >5 cm, depth and bone invasion were negative, whereas adjuvant radiotherapy was a positive prognostic factor for survival.
Is amoxapine an atypical antipsychotic? [SEP] amoxapine as an antipsychotic: comparative study versus haloperidol. amoxapine as an atypical antipsychotic: a comparative study vs risperidone. amoxapine is marketed as an antidepressant. amoxapine has also shown efficacy as an atypical antipsychotic in open trials. amoxapine shows atypical antipsychotic effects in patients with schizophrenia: results from a prospective open-label study. to examine if this leads to an atypical antipsychotic effect in the clinical context, the authors examined the antipsychotic and side-effect profile of amoxapine in acutely psychotic patients with schizophrenia. these clinical data lend support to the pre-clinical suggestions that amoxapine may be an atypical antipsychotic. amoxapine, a dibenzoxazepine antidepressant, has been suggested to have atypical antipsychotic properties. is amoxapine an atypical antipsychotic? these data, together with amoxapine's in vitro pharmacologic profile, effectiveness in animal models, and efficacy in psychotic depression raise the possibility of amoxapine as an "atypical" antipsychotic agent in the treatment of schizophrenia.
Does topical N-acetylcysteine application after myringotomy cause severe otorrhea? [SEP] does topical n-acetylcysteine application after myringotomy cause severe otorrhea? the effect of topical n-acetylcysteine (nac) application was investigated on the healing of acute experimental tympanic membrane perforations. under intraperitoneal ketamine anesthesia, incisional myringotomies were performed in the posterosuperior quadrant of the tympanic membranes with a straight otologic hook. the diameter of the perforations was approximately 2 mm. perforations in both ears were treated with freshly prepared sponges soaked in either 0.1 ml 0.9% nacl solution (10 control animals) or 0.6 mg/0.1 ml nac (10 animals) for three consecutive days. all the tympanic membranes were examined by otomicroscopy on the third, fifth, seventh, and ninth days. in the control group, all the perforations were completely closed at the end of nine days. during the same period, only 40% of the perforations were completely closed in the nac group. the remaining ears exhibited otorrhea by the third day. n-acetylcysteine may cause severe otorrhea in the healing process of tympanic membrane perforations.
Is non-HDL-cholesterol a better predictor of long-term outcome in patients after acute myocardial infarction compared to LDL-cholesterol? [SEP] is non-hdl-cholesterol a better predictor of long-term outcome in patients after acute myocardial infarction compared to ldl-cholesterol? it has recently been shown that non-high density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-hdl-c) may be a better predictor of cardiovascular risk than low density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c). based on known ethic differences in lipid parameters and cardiovascular risk prediction, we sought to study the predictability of attaining non-hdl-c target and long-term major adverse cardiovascular event (mace) in thai patients after acute myocardial infarction (ami) compared to attaining ldl-c target. the mean non-hdl-c and ldl-c during long-term follow-up were used to predict mace at each time point. during mean follow-up of 2.6 ± 1.6 years among 868 patients after ami, 34.4% achieved non-hdl-c target, 23.7% achieved ldl-c target and 21.2% experienced maces. ldl-c and non-hdl-c were directly compared in cox regression model. compared with non-hdl-c <100 mg/dl, patients with non-hdl-c of >130 mg/dl had higher incidence of maces (hr 3.15, 95% ci 1.46-6.80, p = 0.003). surprisingly, ldl-c >100 mg/dl was associated with reduced risk of mace as compared to ldl <70 mg/dl (hr 0.42, 95% ci 0.18-0.98, p = 0.046) after direct pairwise comparison with non-hdl-c level. non-attaining non-hdl-c goal predicted mace at long-term follow-up after ami whereas non-attaining ldl-c goal was not associated with the higher risk. therefore, non-hdl-c may be a more suitable target of dyslipidemia treatment than ldl-c in patients after ami.
Is intrapartum vibroacoustic stimulation an effective predictor of fetal acidosis? [SEP] is intrapartum vibroacoustic stimulation an effective predictor of fetal acidosis? the hypothesis of this prospective study is that intrapartum vibroacoustic stimulation (vas) is an effective predictor of fetal acidosis during labor. fetal scalp blood ph or umbilical arterial blood ph was obtained within 15 minutes of vas. the relationship between fhr responses to vas and fetal blood ph in term and preterm gestations, the relationship of two tests (vas and fetal blood ph) to type of fhr decelerations, and the predictability of neonatal morbidity by two tests were analyzed. it was observed that negative vas responses for predicting fetal acidosis (ph < 7.20) were comparable between term (> or = 37 weeks) and preterm (< 37 weeks, > or = 34 weeks) fetuses. the positive predictive value (ppv) of fetal acidosis was 67% in both groups of fhr variable decelerations and late decelerations, but the false negative rate of acceleration vas response for predicting no acidosis was significantly higher in the group of late decelerations (29% vs 8%, p = 0.034). finally, both a negative vas response and fetal acidosis (ph < 7.20) have equal predictability for neonatal morbidity. the ppv of nicu admission by a negative vas response was two times higher than that of fetal acidosis (ppv = 61% vs 29%, p = 0.038). we found that intrapartum vas was an effective predictor of fetal acidosis in cases of fhr variable decelerations, but its predictability for fetal acidosis in cases of fhr late decelerations was limited. both vas and fetal blood ph are good predictors of neonatal morbidity.
The association of puberty and young adolescent alcohol use: do parents have a moderating role? [SEP] 
Must early postoperative oral intake be limited to laparoscopy? [SEP] late recovery was defined as the failure to meet at least two indicators of postoperative recovery (oral feeding, removal of the urinary catheter, cessation of intravenous fluids, and mobilization) on postoperative day 2. multiple regression analysis revealed six enhanced recovery protocol items that independently positively influenced postoperative recovery: pre-admission counseling (adjusted odds ratio [aor] 2.596), a preoperative carbohydrate drink (aor 1.948), intraoperative fluid infusions < 7 ml/kg/h (aor 1.662), avoidance of thoracic epidural analgesia (aor 2.137), removal of nasogastric tube at the end of surgery (aor 4.939), and successful laparoscopy (aor 2.341). adherence to specific pre- and intraoperative enhanced recovery protocol items, including counseling, preoperative carbohydrate intake, restrictive intraoperative fluid management, avoidance of thoracic epidural analgesia, early removal of nasogastric tube, and successful laparoscopy, appears crucial for promoting early recovery following elective colorectal resection. the lspd group showed less blood loss; started oral intake early; and the duration of post-operative hospital stay was also shorter (p < 0.05). enhanced recovery protocol in laparoscopic liver surgery. drains and catheters were avoided and per oral intake was initiated promptly. does a combination of laparoscopic approach and full fast track multimodal management decrease postoperative morbidity? patients eligible for elective laparoscopic colorectal cancer surgery were randomized into 2 groups: fft or lft care (with only early oral intake and mobilization starting on day 1). after multivariate regression analysis, only early intravenous catheter removal (on day 2) [odds ratio: 0.390; 95% confidence interval: (95% ci 0.181-0.842); p = 0.017] and the absence of intraoperative lidocaine intravenous perfusion (odds ratio: 0.182, 95% ci 0.042-0.788; p = 0.019) were identified as independent predictive factors of reduced postoperative morbidity. addition of fft multimodal management to laparoscopic approach with early oral intake and mobilization does not reduce postoperative morbidity after colorectal cancer surgery.
Does loss of consciousness predict neuropsychological decrements after concussion? [SEP] does loss of consciousness predict neuropsychological decrements after concussion? to investigate the importance of loss of consciousness (loc) in predicting neuropsychological test performance in a large sample of patients with head injury. retrospective comparison of neuropsychological test results for patients who suffered traumatic loc, no loc, or uncertain loc. neuropsychological test measures, including the visual reproduction, digit span, and logical memory subtests of the wechsler memory scale (revised), the trail making test, wisconsin card sorting test, hopkins verbal learning test, controlled oral word association, and the galveston orientation and amnesia test (goat). patients who had experienced traumatic loc did not perform more poorly on neuropsychological testing than those with no loc or uncertain loc. all three groups demonstrated mildly decreased performance on formal tests of speed of information processing, attentional process, and memory. the results of this study cast doubt on the importance of loc as a predictor of neuropsychological test performance during the acute phase of recovery from mild traumatic brain injury. neuropsychological testing procedures have been shown to be sensitive in measuring cognitive sequelae of mild traumatic brain injury (concussion) in athletes. the failure of this study to find any relationship between loc and neuropsychological functioning in a large sample of patients with mild head trauma calls into question the assignment of primary importance to loc in grading severity of concussion. continued research is necessary to determine the relative importance of markers of concussion in athletes.
Does patella position influence ligament balancing in total knee arthroplasty? [SEP] this prospective study aimed to investigate the influence of patellar position (ie, eversion, lateralization, and reduction) on medial and lateral gap measurements during total knee arthroplasty (tka) in both cruciate-retaining (cr) and posterior-stabilized (ps) tka designs. the effect of patellar positioning on femoral component rotation when performing flexion gap balancing using a tensioning device for total knee arthroplasty. intraoperative patellar position (eversion, lateralization, or in situ) influences the ligamentous balancing in knee flexion and thereby the correct positioning of the femoral component during total knee arthroplasty. is it possible to re-establish pre-operative patellar kinematics using a ligament-balanced technique in total knee arthroplasty? does patella position influence ligament balancing in total knee arthroplasty? the influence of patella height on soft tissue balance in cruciate-retaining and posterior-stabilised total knee arthroplasty. although the patella reduced or everted position has recently been recognised as an important factor influencing soft tissue balance during assessment in total knee arthroplasty (tka), the influence of patella height on soft tissue balance has not been well addressed. the influence of patella height on intra-operative soft tissue balance in posterior-stabilized total knee arthroplasty. although the patella reduced or everted position has recently been recognized as an important factor in influencing soft tissue balance during the assessment in total knee arthroplasty (tka), the influence of patella height on soft tissue balance has not been well addressed. the influence of patellar position on soft tissue balance in minimal incision total knee arthroplasty.
Is the advanced age a contraindication to GERD laparoscopic surgery? [SEP] 
Ultra high risk (UHR) for psychosis criteria: are there different levels of risk for transition to psychosis? [SEP] this article reviews recent findings on predictors of conversion to psychosis among youth deemed at ultra high risk (uhr) based on the presence of subpsychotic-intensity symptoms or genetic risk for psychosis and a recent decline in functioning. ultra high risk (uhr) for psychosis criteria: are there different levels of risk for transition to psychosis? the ultra high risk (uhr) for psychosis criteria have been validated in a number of studies. however, it is not known whether particular uhr criteria (attenuated psychotic symptoms (aps), brief limited intermittent psychotic symptoms (blips) or trait vulnerability criteria), or combination of criteria, is associated with a higher risk of transition to psychosis. data on uhr intake criteria and transition to psychosis status at 6 months were analysed for uhr patients seen at the pace clinic, orygen youth health between january 2000 and november 2008. baseline differences in clinical symptomatology between ultra high risk subjects with and without a transition to psychosis. the chance of transition to psychosis in patients at ultra high risk for developing psychosis (uhr) is 10-15%. the aim of present study was to investigate differences in baseline clinical symptomatology, general level of functioning (gaf-score) and genetic risk between uhr patients who did (uhr+t) or did not (uhr+nt) make a transition to psychosis. sharpening uhr inclusion criteria may aid in improving prediction of transition to psychosis. ], our study indicates that severity of specific symptoms at baseline is related to transition to psychosis in uhr subjects.
Has the 80-hour workweek improved surgical resident education in New England? [SEP] has the 80-hour workweek improved surgical resident education in new england? to evaluate the effect of the 80-hour workweek restrictions on resident education within surgical programs in the new england area. program directors/coordinators in each surgical residency program in new england. prior to the initiation of the 80-hour workweek, residency programs emphasized weekly didactic sessions given by attending physicians (88%), mock orals (88%), and conventional journal club (76%). after the 80-hour workweek was implemented, the education curriculum most often consisted of didactic sessions by attending (100%), mock orals (88%), and simulation laboratories (75%). only 25% of programs felt that surgical education was improved after the implementation of the 80-hour workweek, whereas 31% felt education was worse. despite the positive effects the 80-hour workweek has had on resident quality of life and patient care, it does not seem that either significant improvements or detrimental effects have occurred on surgical education within residency programs in new england. the impact of the 80-hour workweek on pediatric surgical training: an association of pediatric surgery program directors-sponsored study. the aim of this study was to determine the preliminary impact of work hour regulations on pediatric surgical training. the work hour regulations have resulted in fundamental changes in pediatric surgical training.
Can continuous physical training counteract aging effect on myoelectric fatigue? [SEP] can continuous physical training counteract aging effect on myoelectric fatigue? a surface electromyography study application. to compare the myoelectric onset of muscle fatigue in physically active trained young skiers with respect to elderly skiers and to test whether continuous training can counteract the selective loss of type ii muscle fibers usually observed with aging. an observational, cross-sectional study of the myoelectric onset of muscle fatigue in the left tibialis anterior muscles. fifty-four physically trained, active skiers (43 men, 11 women; age range, 24-85y). questionnaire on physical activity and 2 sustained isometric voluntary contractions at 20% and 2 at 80% of the maximal voluntary contraction level. isometric contractions and mean and median spectral frequencies calculated to monitor the myoelectric manifestations of muscle fatigue. fatigue indices did not differ significantly between younger and older subjects and, thus, did not show a correlation between myoelectric manifestations of muscle fatigue and age in physically active subjects. it appears possible that aging skeletal muscles subjected to continuous exercise develop an adaptive response that counteracts the selective loss of type ii muscle fibers usually observed in the muscles of elderly sedentary subjects. our results suggest that physical activity could be considered in the elderly within a broad rehabilitative framework in which appropriate and even tailored physical training could be planned to counteract the physiologic effects of aging on muscle fiber distribution.
Does ischemic preconditioning require reperfusion before index ischemia? [SEP] we evaluated the cardioprotective effects of vns preconditioning in a rat model of acute myocardial infarction with induced i/r injury. vns preconditioning effectively mitigates i/r injury by improving cardiac function, reducing infarct size and arrhythmias, and attenuating inflammatory and apoptotic responses. remote ischemic preconditioning increases accumulated oxygen deficit in middle-distance runners. remote ischemic perconditioning to reduce reperfusion injury during acute st-segment-elevation myocardial infarction: a systematic review and meta-analysis. new technique of local ischemic preconditioning induction without repetitive aortic cross-clamping in cardiac surgery. several studies have demonstrated that local ischemic preconditioning can reduce myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury in cardiac surgery patients; however, preconditioning has not become a standard cardioprotective intervention, primarily because of the increased risk of atheroembolism during repetitive aortic cross-clamping. preconditioning was induced by subjecting the hemodynamically unloaded heart to 2 cycles of 3 min of ischemia and 3 min of reperfusion with normokalemic blood prior to cardioplegia. ischemic preconditioning is an intrinsic process in which preconditioning ischemia (ischemia of shorter duration) protects the organs against the subsequent index ischemia (sustained ischemia). remote ischemic preconditioning (ripc) is an innovative treatment approach in which interspersed cycles of preconditioning ischemia followed by reperfusion to a remote organ (other than target organ) protect the target organ against index ischemia and reperfusion-induced injury. mice received no intervention (i/r) or preconditioning (pc) via 5 min i/r before the index ischemia.
Are sports medicine journals relevant and applicable to practitioners and athletes? [SEP] the study monitored the protocols of randomised controlled trials (rcts) and systematic reviews (srs) investigating mesenchymal stem cell (msc) injections for various traumatological and orthopaedic conditions. at the time of the study, 159 (35.4%) trials had been completed, and only 56 (12.5%) had published results in peer-reviewed journals. however, the results of only a small proportion of clinical trials and systematic reviews are published in peer-reviewed journals, which most likely does not allow practitioners to form a full judgement on the efficacy and safety of this treatment. are sports medicine journals relevant and applicable to practitioners and athletes? to examine the evidence base of sports medicine research and assess how relevant and applicable it is to everyday practice. original research articles, short reports, and case reports published in four major sport and exercise medicine journals were studied and classified according to the main topic of study and type of subjects used. the most common topic was sports science, and very few studies related to the treatment of injuries and medical conditions. the majority of published articles used healthy subjects sampled from the sedentary population, and few studies have been carried out on injured participants. there is a dearth of studies addressing diagnostic and treatment interventions in the sports medicine literature. the evidence base for sports medicine must continue to increase in terms of volume and quality.
Does head positioning influence anterior chamber depth in pseudoexfoliation syndrome? [SEP] does head positioning influence anterior chamber depth in pseudoexfoliation syndrome? phacodonesis can occur in pseudoexfoliation syndrome because of impaired zonular support. this study investigates whether the increased mobility of the lens influences anterior chamber depth in patients with pseudoexfoliation while assuming a prone position. central anterior chamber depth was measured in 39 patients with clinically apparent unilateral pseudoexfoliation and elevated intraocular pressure. patients were placed in a face-up position for 5 minutes, at which time anterior chamber depth and axial length were measured by a scan, and intraocular pressure was measured by tonopen (oculab, la jolla, ca) in both eyes. anterior chamber depth in eyes with pseudoexfoliation decreased from a mean of 3.08 mm in the supine position to a mean of 2.95 mm in the prone position, whereas mean anterior chamber depth in the fellow eyes decreased from 3.01 mm to 2.97 mm. the decrease in anterior chamber depth when facing down in the eyes with pseudoexfoliation was significantly greater than in the fellow eyes. in patients with clinically apparent unilateral pseudoexfoliation, the lens seems to be more mobile in the affected eye. this results in a shallower anterior chamber when the head is placed in a prone position. whether this fact might potentially lead to transient pupillary block when engaging in activities such as facing down while reading warrants further study.
Are polymorphisms in oestrogen receptors genes associated with lipid levels in response to hormone therapy? [SEP] are polymorphisms in oestrogen receptors genes associated with lipid levels in response to hormone therapy? polymorphisms in the oestrogen receptor 1 (esr1) and oestrogen receptor 2 (esr2) genes are associated with intermediate or endpoint markers of cardiovascular disease and with the efficacy of postmenopausal hormone therapy (ht). association of polymorphisms in genes involved in lipoprotein metabolism with plasma concentrations of remnant lipoproteins and hdl subpopulations before and after hormone therapy in postmenopausal women. variations in the oestrogen receptor alpha gene (esr1) and in genes involved in lipid metabolism may explain some of the variability in response to ht. genetic variation in estrogen-metabolizing genes and estrogen receptors influences estrogen metabolism and can potentially modify, at least in part, individual responses to hormone replacement therapy (hrt) or cardiovascular disease (cvd) susceptibility. pharmacogenetics and association studies of estrogen metabolism genes and lipid levels, inflammatory markers, atherosclerosis and myocardial infarction are reviewed. estrogen receptor alpha (esr1) gene variation is associated with a range of important estrogen-dependent characteristics, including responses of lipid profile and atherosclerotic severity to hormone replacement therapy, coronary heart disease risk, and migraine. gender-specific effects of estrogen receptor alpha gene haplotype on high-density lipoprotein cholesterol response to atorvastatin: interaction with apolipoprotein ai gene polymorphism. recently, associations between polymorphisms in the estrogen receptor alpha (esr1) and the hdl cholesterol response to hormone replacement therapy were reported. apoe epsilon2/epsilon3/epsilon4 coding and -219 g/t promoter polymorphisms influenced binding to the oestrogen receptor and altered transcriptional activity in response to oestrogen.
Sternal plating for primary and secondary sternal closure; can it improve sternal stability? [SEP] a prospective randomized controlled study to assess the effectiveness of super fixsorb wave we developed a new sternal fixation device, super fixsorb wave this prospective, single-blinded, multicenter trial randomized 69 patients to either wire cerclage only (group c, n = 30) or wire cerclage plus super fixsorb wave group w showed significantly reduced sternal anteroposterior displacement at both the third costal (0 [0-1.9] mm vs. 1.1 [0-2.1] mm; p = 0.014) and fourth intercostal (0 [0-1.0] mm) vs. 1.0 [0-1.8] mm; p = 0.015) levels than group c. in group w, lateral displacement was suppressed without a significant increase from 2 weeks to 6 months, while it increased in group c. there was no significant difference in postoperative sternal pain and quality-of-life between the two groups. pilot study of sternal plating for primary closure of the sternum in cardiac surgical patients. the rapid sternal closure system (talon) is approved for stabilization and fixation of the anterior chest wall. sternal plating for primary and secondary sternal closure; can it improve sternal stability? sternal instability with mediastinitis is a very serious complication after median sternotomy. biomechanical studies have suggested superiority of rigid plate fixation over wire cerclage for sternal fixation. this study tests the hypothesis that sternal closure stability can be improved by adding plate fixation in a human cadaver model. four sternal closure techniques were tested: (1) approximation with six interrupted steel wires; (2) approximation with six interrupted cables; (3) closure 1 (wires) or 2 (cables) reinforced with a transverse sternal plate at the sixth rib; (4) closure using 4 sternal plates alone. transverse sternal plating with 1 or 4 plates significantly improves sternal stability closure in human cadaver model. adding a single sternal plate to primary closure improves the strength of sternal closure with traditional wiring potentially reducing the risk of sternal dehiscence and could be considered in high risk patients.
Can dose reduction to one parotid gland prevent xerostomia? [SEP] intensity-modulated rt can significantly reduce the loss of parotid gland function when respecting a certain dose threshold. can dose reduction to one parotid gland prevent xerostomia?--a feasibility study for locally advanced head and neck cancer patients treated with intensity-modulated radiotherapy. at a median follow-up of 13 months, 9/19 patients had no symptoms of dryness of the mouth (grade i), 8/19 had mild dryness of the mouth (grade ii) and only 2/19 had grade iii xerostomia, although the parotid gland could only be spared on one side in most of the patients. minimising the radiation dose to one of the parotid glands with the help of imrt in patients with advanced head and neck cancers can prevent xerostomia in most patients and parotid scintigraphy is a useful method of documenting xerostomia. the treatment planning goal was for at least one parotid gland to receive a mean dose of <26 gy. using imrt, it was possible in 16 patients to reduce the dose for at least one parotid gland to < or =26 gy. in 7 patients, protection of both parotid glands was possible. using imrt, it is possible to protect the parotid glands and reduce the incidence and severity of xerostomia in patients. a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of concomitant pilocarpine with head and neck irradiation for prevention of radiation-induced xerostomia. age and the parotid dose did not have a significant effect on xerostomia.
Is the histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 1 (HINT1) gene a candidate for schizophrenia? [SEP] 
Increased neutrophil migratory activity after major trauma: a factor in the etiology of acute respiratory distress syndrome? [SEP] 
Does higher body mass index contribute to worse asthma control in an urban population? [SEP] 
Does a physician's specialty influence the recording of medication history in patients' case notes? [SEP] findings suggest a physician's confidence in their diagnosis might be misplaced after spending insufficient time extracting relevant information from key areas of the visual display, or when decisions are based primarily on a priori expectations derived from patient histories. does a physician's specialty influence the recording of medication history in patients' case notes? to determine the impact of a physician's specialty on the frequency and depth of medication history documented in patient medical records. a cross-sectional assessment of the frequency and depth of medication history information documented by 123 physicians for 900 randomly selected patients stratified across cardiology, chest, dermatology, endocrine, gastroenterology, haematology, neurology, psychiatry and renal specialties was carried out at a 900-bed teaching hospital located in ibadan, nigeria. physicians' specialties significantly influenced the depth of documentation of the medication history information across the nine specialties (p < 0.0001). post hoc pair-wise comparisons with tukey's hsd test showed that the mean scores for adverse drug reactions and adherence to medicines was highest in the cardiology specialty; while the chest specialty had the highest mean scores for allergy to drugs, food, chemicals and cigarette smoking. physicians' specialties also significantly influenced the frequency of documentation of the medication history across the nine specialties (p < 0.0001). physicians appear to document more frequently and in greater depth medication history information that may aid the diagnostic tasks in their specific specialty. researchers and other users of medication history data documented in patients' medical records by physicians may want to take special cognizance of this phenomenon. performance of sleep histories in an ambulatory medicine clinic: impact of simple chart reminders.
Living in an urban environment and non-communicable disease risk in Thailand: Does timing matter? [SEP] 
Is renal warm ischemia over 30 minutes during laparoscopic partial nephrectomy possible? [SEP] a single overnight stay is possible for most patients undergoing robotic partial nephrectomy. to evaluate establishment of overnight stay only as sufficient after robotic partial nephrectomy (rpn). stated benefits of minimally invasive surgery include reduced hospitalization, but published hospital stays after laparoscopic or robotic partial nephrectomy are not significantly less than with open surgery. mean warm ischemia time was 12.1 minutes (range, 0-30.0 minutes). is renal warm ischemia over 30 minutes during laparoscopic partial nephrectomy possible? to evaluate renal damage and impairment of renal function 1 yr after laparoscopic partial nephrectomy (lpn) with warm ischemia >30 min. from july 2004 to june 2005, 18 patients underwent lpn with warm ischemia time >30 min. renal scintigraphy was performed before the procedure, at 5 d and at 3 and 12 mo postoperatively. our results demonstrate that kidney damage occurs during lpn when warm ischemia is >30 min. this damage is only partially reversible and efforts should be made to keep warm ischemia within 30 min.
Does a febrile reaction to platelets predispose recipients to red blood cell alloimmunization? [SEP] does a febrile reaction to platelets predispose recipients to red blood cell alloimmunization? a variable effect of inflammation on alloimmunization to transfused red blood cells (rbcs) in mice has been recently reported. we investigated whether rbc alloimmunization in humans was affected by transfusion of blood products in temporal proximity to experiencing a febrile transfusion reaction (ftr) to platelets (plts), an event predominantly mediated by inflammatory cytokines. blood bank databases were used to identify patients who experienced an ftr or possible ftr to plts from august 2000 to march 2008 (ftr group). the control group of patients received a plt transfusion on randomly selected dates without experiencing an ftr. the "event" was defined as the plt transfusion that caused the ftr in the ftr group or the index plt transfusion in the control group. the primary endpoint was the rate of rbc alloimmunization between the two groups. overall, the recipients in the control group were younger and received more blood products on the day of their event and over the subsequent 10 days. the alloimmunization rate among recipients in the ftr group was higher than in the control group (8% vs. 3%, respectively; p = 0.026). these preliminary data support our hypothesis that recipient inflammation may affect rbc alloimmunization in humans; however, a more detailed understanding of the pathophysiologic association between inflammation and alloimmunization is required before definitive conclusions can be reached.
Maternal creatine homeostasis is altered during gestation in the spiny mouse: is this a metabolic adaptation to pregnancy? [SEP] 
Pap smears with glandular cell abnormalities: Are they detected by rapid prescreening? [SEP] pap smears with glandular cell abnormalities: are they detected by rapid prescreening? rapid prescreening (rps) is one of the quality assurance (qa) methods used in gynecologic cytology. the efficacy of rps has been previously studied but mostly with respect to squamous lesions; in fact, there has been no study so far specifically looking at the sensitivity of rps for detecting glandular cell abnormalities. a total of 80,565 papanicolaou (pap) smears underwent rps during a 25-month period. a sample was designated as "review for abnormality" (r) if any abnormal cells (at the threshold of atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance/atypical glandular cells [agc]) were thought to be present or was designated as negative (n) if none were detected. the final cytologic interpretation was a glandular cell abnormality (≥agc) in 107 samples (0.13%); 39 of these (36.4%) were flagged as r on rps. twenty-four patients (33.8%) out of 71 who had histologic follow-up were found to harbor a high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion or carcinoma; 13 of those 24 pap smears (54.2%) had been flagged as r on rps. notably, 11 agc cases were picked up by rps only and not by fs and represented false-negative cases; 2 of these showed endometrial adenocarcinoma on histologic follow-up. pap smears with glandular cell abnormalities are often flagged as abnormal by rps, and this results in a sensitivity of 36.4% (at the agc threshold). most importantly, some cases of agc are detected on pap smears by rps only, and this demonstrates that rps is a valuable qa method.
The HELPP syndrome--evidence of a possible systemic inflammatory response in pre-eclampsia? [SEP] [the helpp syndrome--evidence of a possible systemic inflammatory response in pre-eclampsia?]. the principal causes of morbidity and mortality during pregnancy in mexico, are preeclampsia/eclampsia, obstetric hemorrhage and puerperium complications; this is, 62% of maternal deaths in last years. hellp syndrome was observed between 5 to 25% of the mortality in pregnancies of 36 weeks or less. to analyze patients with hellp syndrome in icu's (intensive care unit) of a gynecology and obstetric hospital, related to the abnormal hematological, hepatic and renal results with the obstetric case history and the clinical complications. it was evaluated the hepatic and renal function, platelets count, microangiopathic hemolysis, arterial pressure, seizures, icteric skin color, blindness, visual disturbances, nausea, vomiting and upper quadrant right abdominal pain. 2878 patients with hypertensives disorders in pregnancy (11.64%). the 1.15% (n = 33) had hellp syndrome with specific maternal mortality of 0.4 per 10,000 live birth, perinatal mortality of 1.62 per 10,000 live birth; and renal damage in 84.5%. coefficient beta was higher between number of pregnancies to platelets count (-0.33) and creatinine clearance (-0.401). we found an important renal damage, low platelets, elevated liver enzymes in women with two or more pregnancies. then we propose there are similarities between hellp syndrome and systemic inflammatory response syndrome (sirs) because they could have the same pathophysiology.
Spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with resection of the splenic vessels. Should one rely on the short gastric arteries? [SEP] spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with resection of the splenic vessels. should one rely on the short gastric arteries? knowing the collaterals is essential for a spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with resection of the splenic vessels. to ascertain the sources of the blood supply to the spleen after a spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with resection of the splenic vessels. intraoperative color doppler ultrasound was used for the evaluation of the hilar arterial blood flow at distal pancreatectomy (n=23) after 1) clamping of the splenic artery alone, 2) clamping of the splenic and left gastroepiploic arteries and 3) clamping of the splenic and short gastric arteries. ct angiography of the gastric and splenic vessels before and after a spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy (n=10). in no case did intraoperative color doppler ultrasound detect any hilar arterial blood flow after the clamping of the splenic and left gastroepiploic arteries. in none of the cases did a post-spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with resection of the splenic vessels ct angiography delineate the short gastric vessels supplying the spleen. in all cases, the gastroepiploic arcade was the main arterial pathway feeding the spleen. experimental, intra- and postoperative instrumental investigations did not show the short gastric arteries to be engaged in the blood supply to the spleen after a spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with resection of the splenic vessels.
Delayed peripheral facial palsy in the stapes surgery: can it be prevented? [SEP] delayed peripheral facial palsy in the stapes surgery: can it be prevented? the aim of this study was to evaluate poststapedectomy-delayed facial palsy etiopathogenesis, risk factors, evolution, and prevention. seven hundred six stapedectomies performed in 580 patients were reviewed. in all patients who developed delayed facial palsy, the dates of onset and subside of facial palsy, the anatomic and pathologic predisposing factors, and a possible history for recurrent labial herpetic lesions were considered. virus-specific immunoglobulin (ig) g and igm antibodies against herpes simplex virus type 1 (hsv-1) were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa) 3 weeks after the onset of the paralysis. poststapedectomy facial palsy developed in 7 out of 706 procedures. one patient showed a facial palsy h-b grade ii, 2 a grade iii, and 3 a grade iv. an increased igg antibody titer was found in 6 of the patients with delayed facial palsy and in 1 out of 7 controls. mean igg titer was 1:14,050 in the subjects with delayed facial palsy and 1:2,300 in controls (p <.001). poststapedectomy-delayed facial palsy is likely caused by a reactivation of hsv-1, latent within the geniculate ganglion.
Hepatic arterial embolization for unresectable hepatocellular carcinomas: do technical factors affect prognosis? [SEP] short-term efficacy and safety of callispheres drug-loaded microsphere embolization in primary hepatocellular carcinoma. safety and efficacy of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization with embospheres in treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. to investigate the safety and efficacy of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (tace) with embospheres for the treatment of unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). hepatic arterial embolization for unresectable hepatocellular carcinomas: do technical factors affect prognosis? to evaluate retrospectively whether technical factors of hepatic arterial embolization affect the prognosis of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). [influence of different treatment modalities on survival of patients with two -stage resection of unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma]. to study the therapeutic results of hepatic resection for shrunk hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) after transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (tace) and hepatic artery ligation and chemoembolization (halce) in patients with unresectable hcc, and compare the influence of the above different treatment modalities on the prognosis. long-term outcomes of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization with autologous blood clot for unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma. ninety-two consecutive patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) greater than 2 cm and less than 5 cm in diameter were treated by transcatheter arterial chemoembolization using autologous blood clot as an embolizing agent (short-tae; s-tae). [chemoembolization of hepatocellular carcinoma--computed tomographic follow-up observation].
Are pelvic anatomical structures in danger during arthroscopic acetabular labral repair? [SEP] are pelvic anatomical structures in danger during arthroscopic acetabular labral repair? definition of safe bone depth. the purpose of this study was to evaluate safe depth for suture anchor insertion during acetabular labral repair and to determine the neighbouring structures at risk during drilling and anchor insertion. ten human cadaveric hips (six males and four females) were obtained. acetabular labral surface was prepared and marked for right hips as 12, 1 and 3 o'clock positions, for left hips 12, 11 and 9 o'clock positions. these labral positions were drilled at defined zones. acetabular bone widths at investigated labral insertion points did not statistically differ. the risk of perforation to the pelvic cavity started with 20 mm drill depth, and the mean depth for all insertions was calculated as 31.7 mm (sd 2.6). it is anatomically possible that some pelvic structures sustain iatrogenic injury during acetabular drilling for anchor placement. being aware of mean pelvic vault is important in which drilling after excessive pincer rim trimming could easily decrease the depth of acetabular bone without a standard.
Staging laparoscopy in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma: is it useful? [SEP] the anatomic location of the tumor can be a challenge, and select hepatic locations of a tumor require laparoscopic-assisted strategies to safely reach and treat the lesion. hybrid transileocecal portal vein embolization associated with staging laparoscopy for planned major hepatectomy in advanced hepatobiliary cancers. the aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of transileocecal portal embolization (tipe) associated with staging laparoscopy (hybrid lap-tipe) for a planned hepatectomy in advanced hepatobiliary cancers. hybrid lap-tipe was conducted for 52 patients, and a subsequent tipe was accomplished in 42 patients (80.8%), since staging laparoscopy detected latent or unresectable factors in 13 patients (25.0%), among which 2 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and 1 with colorectal liver metastasis received laparoscopic cytoreductive surgery for latent lesions in the flr. external validation of a simplified bclc staging system for early hepatocellular carcinoma. current concepts in hepatic resection for hepatocellular carcinoma in cirrhotic patients. staging laparoscopy in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma: is it useful? staging laparoscopy (sl) is not regularly performed for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). laparoscopy-assisted resection of an undiagnosed liver tumor and ascending colon cancer via mini median laparotomy: report of a case. this type of laparoscopy-assisted combined resection is useful to obtain a pathological diagnosis of the liver tumor and to remove the entire tumor in a minimally invasive and cosmetic manner.
Can echocardiography and ECG discriminate hereditary transthyretin V30M amyloidosis from hypertrophic cardiomyopathy? [SEP] can echocardiography and ecg discriminate hereditary transthyretin v30m amyloidosis from hypertrophic cardiomyopathy? hereditary transthyretin (attr) amyloidosis with increased left ventricular wall thickness could easily be misdiagnosed by echocardiography as hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (hcm). our aim was to create a diagnostic tool based on echocardiography and ecg that could optimise identification of attr amyloidosis. data were analysed from 33 patients with biopsy proven attr amyloidosis and 30 patients with diagnosed hcm. conventional features from ecg were acquired as well as two dimensional and doppler echocardiography, speckle tracking derived strain and tissue characterisation analysis. classification trees were used to select the most important variables for differentiation between attr amyloidosis and hcm. the best classification was obtained using both ecg and echocardiographic features, where a qrs voltage >30 mm was diagnostic for hcm, whereas in patients with qrs voltage <30 mm, an interventricular septal/posterior wall thickness ratio (ivst/pwt) >1.6 was consistent with hcm and a ratio <1.6 supported the diagnosis of attr amyloidosis. this classification presented both high sensitivity (0.939) and specificity (0.833). our study proposes an easily interpretable classification method for the differentiation between hcm and increased left ventricular myocardial thickness due to attr amyloidosis. our combined echocardiographic and ecg model could increase the ability to identify attr cardiac amyloidosis in clinical practice.
Does pediatric housestaff experience influence tests ordered for infants in the neonatal intensive care unit? [SEP] does pediatric housestaff experience influence tests ordered for infants in the neonatal intensive care unit? to assess the relationship between the experience of pediatric housestaff and tests ordered on infants in the neonatal intensive care unit (icu). one academic level iii neonatal intensive care nursery. these infants were cared for by 14 different categorical pediatric housestaff. our neonatal icu has either a resident or an intern on-call by himself/herself at night, affording us a natural setting to compare intern vs. resident test ordering. the outcomes of interest were number of arterial blood gases, radiographs, and electrolytes ordered per infant by the on-call pediatric houseofficer, as tabulated the morning after the call night. control variables included the severity-of-illness of the individual infant (using the neonatal therapeutic intervention scoring system), the workload of the houseofficer (number of patients, number of admissions), and supervision (rounding frequency and on-call attending). controlling for the severity-of-illness of the infant, the workload on the call night, and supervision with multiple linear regression, we found that interns ordered significantly (p = .02) greater numbers of arterial blood gases per infant than residents, amounting to some 0.33 blood gases per infant per call night (3.22 vs. 2.89 arterial blood gases per infant per night). interns order significantly more arterial blood gases per infant than junior and senior residents on-call in the neonatal icu. additional study is required to see if the experience of housestaff is associated with a broader array of neonatal outcomes, such as morbidity and mortality.
Is robotically assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy less invasive than retropubic radical prostatectomy? [SEP] recently, robotic-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy has replaced open retropubic radical prostatectomy as the surgical procedure of choice. robotic-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy is the ideal technique, providing good oncologic and functional outcomes. we analyzed the impact of robotic surgical systems on practice patterns among urologists to explain changes in the value of radical retropubic prostatectomy, laparoscopic radical prostatectomy and robotic-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy in a single institution in taiwan. changes in the ratio of robotic-assisted prostatectomies compared to radical retropubic and laparoscopic radical prostatectomies demonstrated a trend toward robotic-assisted procedures. incidence of venous gas embolism during robotic-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy is lower than that during radical retropubic prostatectomy. robotic-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy (ralrp) is gaining popularity as a less traumatic and minimally invasive alternative to open radical retropubic prostatectomy (rrp). status of radical prostatectomy in 2009: is there medical evidence to justify the robotic approach? this article presents the evolution of open radical retropubic prostatectomy (orrp) into a minimally invasive procedure and reviews the literature to provide a legitimate comparison between orrp and robotic-assisted laparoscopic radical retropubic prostatectomy (ralrp). comparison of robotic-assisted versus retropubic radical prostatectomy performed by a single surgeon. to compare perioperative outcomes between patients undergoing robotic-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy (ralp) and patients undergoing retropubic radical prostatectomy (rrp) performed by a single surgeon in taiwan.
Nasal polyposis: is there an inheritance pattern? [SEP] we describe their clinical spectrum, including the report of new features (micro/anophtalmia, cataract, thyroid agenesis, polymicrogyria, olfactory bulb hypoplasia, and mandibular cleft), and emphasize the high frequency of nasal polyps in oafns (56%). nasal polyposis: is there an inheritance pattern? nasal polyposis (np) is defined as a chronic inflammatory disease of sinonasal mucosa leading to diffuse formation of benign polyps. [genetic epidemiologic study on nasal polyps]. to investigate the genetic mode of nasal polyp and the effect of genetic factor on occurrence of the disease. a genetic epidemiological case-control study including 280 pedigrees (120 nasal polyp cases and 160 controls) was conducted. the segregation ratio and the heritability of nasal polyp were respectively estimated by the li-mantel-gart method and the falconer method. the heritability of the first-degree and second-degree relatives of nasal polyp was 64.488% and 61.947%. among the first-degree relatives of nasal polyp probands, the heritability of the adult group and the children group were respectively 60.735% and 74.598% (the difference was significant, x2 = 4.504, p < 0.05). this study indicated that the genetic model of nasal polyp belonged to polygenetic and the genetic factors played an important role in the occurrence of nasal polyp, especially for young or recurred patients.
c-Kit-dependent growth of uveal melanoma cells: a potential therapeutic target? [SEP] 
Pharmacologic regimens for knee osteoarthritis prevention: can they be cost-effective? [SEP] pharmacologic regimens for knee osteoarthritis prevention: can they be cost-effective? we sought to determine the target populations and drug efficacy, toxicity, cost, and initiation age thresholds under which a pharmacologic regimen for knee osteoarthritis (oa) prevention could be cost-effective. we used the osteoarthritis policy (oapol) model, a validated state-transition simulation model of knee oa, to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of using disease-modifying oa drugs (dmoads) as prophylaxis for the disease. icers >$150,000/qaly were observed when comparing the base case dmoad to the standard of care in the knee injury only cohort; for the obese only and no risk factors cohorts, the base case dmoad was less cost-effective than the standard of care. a comparison of kneipp hydrotherapy with conventional physiotherapy in the treatment of osteoarthritis of the hip or knee: protocol of a prospective randomised controlled clinical trial. although there is no curative intervention at present, in accordance with us and european guidelines, pharmacotherapeutic and non-pharmacological approaches aim at pain control and the reduction of functional restriction.it has been established that hydrotherapy for osteoarthritis of the hip or knee joint using serial cold and warm water stimulation not only improves the range of movement but also reduces pain significantly and increases quality of life over a period of up to three months. weight reduction is important for patients with osteoarthritis of the hip or knee. in addition, conventional physiotherapy and exercise therapy have both been shown, at a high level of evidence, to be cost-effective and to have long-term benefits for pain relief, movement in the affected joint, and patient quality of life. the study design consists of a prospective randomised controlled three-armed clinical trial, which will be carried out at a specialist clinic for integrative medicine, to investigate the clinical effects of hydrotherapy on osteoarthritis of the knee or hip joint, in comparison with conventional physiotherapy.one hundred and eighty patients diagnosed with osteoarthritis of hip or knee will be randomly assigned to one of three intervention groups: hydrotherapy, physiotherapy, and both physiotherapy and hydrotherapy of the affected joint. the results will contribute to establishing hydrotherapy as a non-invasive, non-interventional, reasonably priced, therapeutic option with few side effects, in the concomitant treatment of osteoarthritis of the hip or knee.
Is anorectal endosonography valuable in dyschesia? [SEP] evaluation of outcome of anorectal anomaly in childhood: the role of anorectal manometry and endosonography. the aim of this study was to evaluate role of anorectal manometry (arm) and anal endosonography (es) in assessment of the internal anal sphincter (ias) quality on continence outcome following repair of anorectal anomalies (ara). is anorectal endosonography valuable in dyschesia? the aim of this prospective study was to demonstrate dysfunction of the anal sphincter and/or the musculus (m.) puborectalis in patients with dyschesia using anorectal endosonography. twenty consecutive patients with a medical history of dyschesia and a control group of 20 healthy subjects underwent linear anorectal endosonography (toshiba models iuv 5060 and pvl-625 rt). linear anorectal endosonography demonstrated incomplete or even absent relaxation of the anal sphincter and the m. puborectalis during a defecation movement in the majority of our patients with dyschesia. endosonography in benign anorectal disease: an overview. endosonography may be used for diagnosing various anorectal disorders. the different modalities, the endosonography technique itself and its value in benign anorectal disease were described. endosonography is mostly used in the assessment of faecal incontinence; it has brought new insight into the pathophysiological mechanisms of this disorder and can select patients with traumatic incontinence for sphincter repair.
Production of chemokines by perivascular adipose tissue: a role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis? [SEP] vascular insulin resistance, an increased insulin-stimulated endothelial production of et-1 combined with impaired nitric oxide availability, is the hallmark of obesity-related vasculopathy, but dysregulated adipokine release from obese adipose tissue may contribute to the predominance of et-1-dependent vasoconstriction. the role of perivascular adipose tissue in non-atherosclerotic vascular disease. perivascular adipose tissue inflammation in vascular disease. perivascular adipose tissue (pvat) plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease. in vascular pathologies, perivascular adipose tissue increases in volume and becomes dysfunctional, with altered cellular composition and molecular characteristics. this article is part of a themed section on molecular mechanisms regulating perivascular adipose tissue - potential pharmacological targets? angiotensin ii markedly increased t cells in the perivascular adipose tissue (periadventitial fat) and, to a lesser extent the adventitia. production of chemokines by perivascular adipose tissue: a role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis? although it is known that white adipose tissue (wat) produces numerous proinflammatory and proatherogenic cytokines and chemokines, it is unclear whether adipose-derived chemotactic signals affect the chronic inflammation in atherosclerosis. human pwat has chemotactic properties through the secretion of different chemokines, and we propose that pwat might contribute to the progression of obesity-associated atherosclerosis.
Continuity of care experience of residents in an academic vascular department: are trainees learning complete surgical care? [SEP] 
Household and food shopping environments: do they play a role in socioeconomic inequalities in fruit and vegetable consumption? [SEP] household and food shopping environments: do they play a role in socioeconomic inequalities in fruit and vegetable consumption? fruit and vegetables are protective of a number of chronic diseases; however, their intakes have been shown to vary by socioeconomic position (sep). household and food shopping environmental factors are thought to contribute to these differences. to determine whether household and food shopping environmental factors are associated with fruit and vegetable (fv) intakes, and contribute to socioeconomic inequalities in fv consumption. participants agreed/disagreed with a number of statements about the characteristics of their household and food shopping environments, including access, prices and quality. main outcome measures were whether or not participants consumed fruit or vegetables on a daily basis. multilevel logistic regression models examined between-area variance in fv consumption and associations between characteristics of the household and food shopping environments and fv consumption. only a few household and food shopping environmental factors were significantly associated with fruit and vegetable consumption, and their prevalence was low. there were significant socioeconomic inequalities in fruit and vegetable consumption (ors of not consuming fruit and vegetables were 4.26 and 5.47 among the lowest-educated groups for fruit and vegetables, respectively); however, these were not explained by any household or food shopping environmental factors. improving access to fv in the household and food shopping environments will only make a small contribution to improving population consumption levels, and may only have a limited effect in reducing socioeconomic inequalities in their consumption.
Does birth center care during a woman's first pregnancy have any impact on her future reproduction? [SEP] the influence of migration on women's satisfaction during pregnancy and birth: results of a comparative prospective study with the migrant friendly maternity care questionnaire (mfmcq). a positive birth experience has an effect on a woman's mental health and her future family planning choices. a modified version of the migrant friendly maternity care questionnaire (mfmcq) designed by gagnon et al. the study results show no difference regarding overall satisfaction with care during labor and birth despite a relevant language barrier. does birth center care during a woman's first pregnancy have any impact on her future reproduction? women's experiences of childbirth may affect their future reproduction, and the model of care affects their experiences, suggesting that a causal link may exist between model of care and future reproduction. the study objective was to examine whether the birth center model of care during a woman's first pregnancy affects whether or not she has a second baby, and on the spacing to the next birth. between october 1989 and july 1993, a total of 1860 women at low medical risk in early pregnancy, who participated in a randomized controlled trial of in-hospital birth center care versus standard care, gave birth. the observation period after the first birth was on average 8.8 years in the birth center group and 8.7 years in the standard care group. a woman's model of care, such as birth center care, during her first pregnancy does not seem to be a sufficiently important factor to affect subsequent reproduction in sweden.
Are environmental factors important in primary systemic vasculitis? [SEP] what is the evidence that mycobacteria are associated with the pathogenesis of sjogren's syndrome? ss may also manifest with polyarthralgia, polyarthritis, polymyalgia, cutaneous/other organ vasculitis, interstitial lung disease, and/or various other disorders. the pathogenesis of ss is considered to involve genetic susceptibility and environmental triggers. update on the epidemiology, risk factors, and outcomes of systemic vasculitides. antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (anca)-associated vasculitis (aav) and giant cell arteritis (gca) are the most common primary systemic vasculitides of the adult population, while polymyalgia rheumatica (pmr) is a clinical syndrome often associated with gca. the mutual interplay between environmental and genetic risk factors leading to the development of these diseases has been further analyzed in the last years. remission of disease and prevention of disease-related complications are the most important outcomes for all systemic vasculitides. clinicians' perspective on key domains in anca-associated vasculitis: a delphi exercise. the prevalence and rrs of sle and other autoimmune diseases in relatives and spouses of patients with sle as well as the relative contributions of heritability, shared, and nonshared environmental factors to sle susceptibility. possible association with atd is also considered in systemic sclerosis and dermatomyositis.
Is low serum chloride level a risk factor for cardiovascular mortality? [SEP] 
Is EQ-5D a valid quality of life instrument in patients with acute coronary syndrome? [SEP] is eq-5d a valid quality of life instrument in patients with acute coronary syndrome? to evaluate the construct validity of the turkish version of the eq-5d in patients with acute coronary syndrome. all patients completed the turkish version of the eq-5d and macnew heart-related quality of life scale. construct validity of the eq-5d was assessed according to relationships with macnew subscales by using spearman rank correlation and multiple linear regression analyses. the turkish version of the eq-5d-based utility score seems to be a valid instrument in the assessment of quality of life studies in patients with acute coronary syndrome. validation of the eq-5d in patients with a history of acute coronary syndrome. to analyze the construct validity of the eq-5d in patients with acute coronary syndromes (acs). the eq-5d includes a visual analogue scale (eq vas) to measure self-reported current health-status (0-100) and a five-item descriptive system measuring mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. levels of responses to eq-5d items and the eq vas score were significantly better for patients with very mild/mild perceived disease severity compared to severe/very severe, for patients with lower comorbidity, for patients with lower symptom responses, and for patients with a higher cardiac-related functioning. this study demonstrated the construct validity of the eq-5d in a population-based sample of patients with a history of acs.
Could Adult European Pharmacoresistant Epilepsy Patients Be Treated With Higher Doses of Zonisamide? [SEP] could adult european pharmacoresistant epilepsy patients be treated with higher doses of zonisamide? to examine the clinical effect (efficacy and tolerability) of high doses of zonisamide (zns) (>500 mg/d) in adult patients with pharmacoresistant epilepsy. between 2006 and 2013, all epileptic outpatients treated with high doses of zns were selected. serum levels of zns and other concomitant antiepileptic drugs were evaluated if available. nine patients (5 female): 8 focal/1 generalized pharmacoresistant epilepsy. zonisamide in polytherapy in all (100%), administered in tritherapy in 3 (33%) of 9 patients; mean dose: 633 (600-700) mg/d; efficacy (>50% seizure reduction) was observed in 5 (55%) of 9 patients. five of 9 patients are still taking high doses of zns (more than 1 year). good tolerance to high doses of other antiepileptic drugs had been observed in 6 (66%) of 9 patients. high doses of zns are effective and safe in pharmacoresistant epileptic patients. therapeutic drug monitoring of zns may be considered at therapeutic failure.
Does early migraine treatment shorten time to headache peak and reduce its severity? [SEP] does early migraine treatment shorten time to headache peak and reduce its severity? to explore whether early treatment would shorten the duration of headache from headache onset to its peak and reduce headache severity at peak. no data are available on whether early intervention affects the duration from headache onset to peak and headache severity at peak. a total of 182 patients reported 970 migraine episodes, 620 of which were treated before headaches progressed to peak. mean time from headache onset to peak varied from 1.9 hours to 8.9 hours for patients treated within 15 minutes of onset and those who waited for 4 or more hours, respectively. however, early intervention was not associated with reduced headache severity at peak. in multivariate analysis, early treatment, use of triptans, and mild migraine headache in the past 3 months were significantly associated with shorter time from onset to headache peak. a separate model indicated that the timing of medication was not associated with the duration between dosing and headache peak, but use of triptans shortened the time from dosing to headache peak. early treatment and use of triptans may lead to shorter duration from migraine headache onset to its peak but did not alleviate headache severity at peak. this could result in decreased migraine burden by reducing total migraine headache duration.
Does the manic/mixed episode distinction in bipolar disorder patients run true over time? [SEP] does the manic/mixed episode distinction in bipolar disorder patients run true over time? the authors sought to determine whether the manic/mixed episode distinction in patients with bipolar disorder runs true over time. over an 11-year period, the observed distribution of manic and mixed episodes (n=1,224) for patients with three or more entries in the management information system of a community mental health center (n=241) was compared to the expected distribution determined by averaging 1,000 randomly generated simulations. episodes were consistent (all manic or all mixed) in significantly more patients than would be expected by chance. these data suggest a pattern of diagnostic stability over time for manic and mixed episodes in patients with bipolar disorder. careful prospective studies of this issue are needed.
Post-tonsillectomy late haemorrhage: is it a preferably night-time event? [SEP] post-tonsillectomy late haemorrhage: is it a preferably night-time event? to evaluate the relationship between the incidence of late post-tonsillectomy haemorrhage and its prevalence in a definite period of the day. this retrospective study was carried out in the ear nose throat (ent) unit of giannina gaslini institute, genoa, italy on children operated for adenotonsillectomy (at) or tonsillectomy (t) between january 2003 and february 2008. we considered in the study all the post-tonsillectomy late haemorrhages irrespective of their severity and for each case we evaluated whether they recurred in the day-time (b) (between 9.00 a.m. and 9.00 p.m.) or in the night-time (a) (between 9.00 p.m. and 9.00 a.m.). finally we considered the number of haemorrhages per hour in the whole day. out of 3306 patients undergoing elective adenotonsillectomy or tonsillectomy, post-operative late haemorrhage occurred in 59 (1.78%). a statistically significant difference (p=0.002) was found when comparing the frequencies of night-time and day-time haemorrhages. the incidence of post-tonsillectomy late haemorrhage in our study population was 1.78%. a statistically significant difference was found between night-time and day-time haemorrhages. even though no significant distribution of haemorrhages per hour was observed, we underline that we recorded 32 (54.2%) events in 2 periods of the day: from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. and from 6 to 9 a.m.
Acute hepatitis C in Israel: a predominantly iatrogenic disease? [SEP] 
Out of the smokescreen II: will an advertisement targeting the tobacco industry affect young people's perception of smoking in movies and their intention to smoke? [SEP] out of the smokescreen ii: will an advertisement targeting the tobacco industry affect young people's perception of smoking in movies and their intention to smoke? to evaluate the effect of an antismoking advertisement on young people's perceptions of smoking in movies and their intention to smoke. 3091 cinema patrons aged 12-24 years in three australian states; 18.6% of the sample (n = 575) were current smokers. quasi-experimental study of patrons, surveyed after having viewed a movie. before seeing the movie in weeks 2 and 3, a 30 s antismoking advertisement was shown, shot in the style of a movie trailer that warned patrons not to be sucked in by the smoking in the movie they were about to see. attitude of current smokers and non-smokers to smoking in the movies; intention of current smokers and non-smokers to smoke in 12 months. among non-smokers, 47.8% of the intervention subjects thought that the smoking in the viewed movie was not ok compared with 43.8% of the control subjects (p = 0.04). a higher percentage of smokers in the intervention group indicated that they were likely to be smoking in 12 months time (38.6%) than smokers in the control group (25.6%; p<0.001). this real-world study suggests that placing an antismoking advertisement before movies containing smoking scenes can help to immunise non-smokers against the influences of film stars' smoking. caution must be exercised in the type of advertisement screened as some types of advertising may reinforce smokers' intentions to smoke.
Do adjuvant aromatase inhibitors increase the cardiovascular risk in postmenopausal women with early breast cancer? [SEP] endothelial dysfunction in breast cancer survivors on aromatase inhibitors: changes over time. this study suggests that postmenopausal breast cancer survivors on aromatase inhibitor therapy develop endothelial dysfunction as early as six months which is a predictor of adverse cv disease. evolution in the risk of adverse events of adjuvant endocrine therapy in postmenopausal women with early-stage breast cancer. adjuvant treatment of breast cancer patients is associated with several unfavorable medical conditions, including dyslipidemia, insulin resistance, and obesity, potentially leading to cardiovascular disease and/or the metabolic syndrome. the risk of myocardial infarction with aromatase inhibitors relative to tamoxifen in post-menopausal women with early stage breast cancer. aromatase inhibitors (ais) may increase cardiovascular risk relative to tamoxifen in post-menopausal women with breast cancer. association of variants in candidate genes with lipid profiles in women with early breast cancer on adjuvant aromatase inhibitor therapy. future studies are needed to validate these findings, and to identify breast cancer survivors who are at higher risk for cardiovascular disease with aromatase inhibitor therapy. multidisciplinary strategy for managing cardiovascular risks when treating patients with early breast cancer. cardiovascular complications related to cancer therapy may be a prominent concern in postmenopausal women with existing cardiovascular disease or in those who are at high risk for developing cardiovascular disease.
Metastatic carcinoma to the cervical nodes from an unknown head and neck primary site: Is there a need for neck dissection? [SEP] 
Cardiac reoperations in octogenarians: Do they really benefit? [SEP] perioperative outcomes and safety of atrial fibrillation catheter ablation in octogenarians: a retrospective study and review of the benefits of rhythm control. cardiac reoperations in octogenarians: do they really benefit? according to the demographic development of our society, the numbers of octogenarians referred to cardiac surgery are continuously growing. although the benefit of first-time cardiac procedures for these patients is well documented, the fate of octogenarians after redo-procedures, with special regard to long-term survival, functional status and quality of life, is poorly investigated. therefore, advanced age alone should not be a contraindication for redo cardiac interventions. coronary artery bypass grafting in octogenarians: only when percutaneous coronary intervention is not feasible? the review of recent studies on octogenarians demonstrates a surgical cabg advantage in the case of patients with increasing baseline coronary risk, such as severe multivessel disease, chronic total occlusions, and left ventricular dysfunction. reoperative aortic valve replacement in the octogenarians-minimally invasive technique in the era of transcatheter valve replacement. reoperative aortic valve replacement (re-avr) in octogenarians is considered high risk and therefore might be indicated for transcatheter avr. we report the outcomes of re-avr in high-risk octogenarians who might be considered candidates for transcatheter avr to assess the safety of re-avr and minimally invasive operative techniques.
Location and number of sutures placed for hiatal hernia repair during laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding: does it matter? [SEP] location and number of sutures placed for hiatal hernia repair during laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding: does it matter? it has been demonstrated that hiatal hernia repair (hhr) during laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding (lagb) decreases the rate of reoperation. however, the technical aspects (location and number of sutures) are not standardized. independent variables were number and location of sutures. the majority of patients had one suture (range 1-6; 55 %). patients with fewer sutures had shorter or time (1 suture 45 min vs. 4+ sutures 56 min, p < 0.0001). anterior suture placement (vs. posterior vs. both) was most common (61 %). patients with posterior suture had a longer los (84 % 1 day vs. anterior 74 % 1 day vs. both 74 % 1 day, p < 0.0001). patients with fewer or anterior sutures have shorter or times. however, 30-day readmission, band-related reoperation, and postoperative weight loss were unaffected by number or location of suture.
Is Alveolar Macrophage Phagocytic Dysfunction in Children With Protracted Bacterial Bronchitis a Forerunner to Bronchiectasis? [SEP] is alveolar macrophage phagocytic dysfunction in children with protracted bacterial bronchitis a forerunner to bronchiectasis? children with recurrent protracted bacterial bronchitis (pbb) and bronchiectasis share common features, and pbb is likely a forerunner to bronchiectasis. defective alveolar macrophage phagocytosis of apoptotic bronchial epithelial cells (efferocytosis), as found in other chronic lung diseases, may also contribute to tissue damage and neutrophil persistence. thus, in children with bronchiectasis or pbb and in control subjects, we quantified the phagocytosis of airway apoptotic cells and nthi by alveolar macrophages and related the phagocytic capacity to clinical and airway inflammation. children with bronchiectasis (n = 55) or pbb (n = 13) and control subjects (n = 13) were recruited. alveolar macrophage phagocytosis, efferocytosis, and expression of phagocytic scavenger receptors were assessed by flow cytometry. bronchoalveolar lavage fluid interleukin (il) 1β was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. for children with pbb or bronchiectasis, macrophage phagocytic capacity was significantly lower than for control subjects (p = .003 and p < .001 for efferocytosis and p = .041 and p = .004 for phagocytosis of nthi; pbb and bronchiectasis, respectively); median phagocytosis of nthi for the groups was as follows: bronchiectasis, 13.7% (interquartile range [iqr], 11%-16%); pbb, 16% (iqr, 11%-16%); control subjects, 19.0% (iqr, 13%-21%); and median efferocytosis for the groups was as follows: bronchiectasis, 14.1% (iqr, 10%-16%); pbb, 16.2% (iqr, 14%-17%); control subjects, 18.1% (iqr, 16%-21%). a reduced alveolar macrophage phagocytic host response to apoptotic cells or nthi may contribute to neutrophilic inflammation and nthi colonization in both pbb and bronchiectasis. whether this mechanism also contributes to the progression of pbb to bronchiectasis remains unknown.
Do elderly patients benefit from surgery in addition to radiotherapy for treatment of metastatic spinal cord compression? [SEP] a validated score estimating ambulatory status following radiotherapy of elderly patients for metastatic spinal cord compression. this study was performed to develop a validated score predicting ambulatory status after radiotherapy (rt) alone for metastatic spinal cord compression (mscc) in elderly patients. treatment of spinal cord compression: are we overusing radiotherapy alone compared to surgery and radiotherapy? do elderly patients benefit from surgery in addition to radiotherapy for treatment of metastatic spinal cord compression? one question regarding the treatment of metastatic spinal cord compression (mscc) is whether elderly patients benefit from surgery in addition to radiotherapy? surgery followed by radiotherapy versus radiotherapy alone for metastatic spinal cord compression from unfavorable tumors. despite a previously published randomized trial, controversy exists regarding the benefit of adding surgery to radiotherapy for metastatic spinal cord compression (mscc). surgical treatment of spinal cord compression in kidney cancer. forty-three patients with renal-cell carcinoma underwent treatment for spinal cord compression over a 7-year period. with the development of effective surgical treatment for spinal metastases, early consideration for surgical treatment (before radiation) should be considered in selected patients.
Are WHO/UNAIDS/UNICEF-recommended replacement milks for infants of HIV-infected mothers appropriate in the South African context? [SEP] are who/unaids/unicef-recommended replacement milks for infants of hiv-infected mothers appropriate in the south african context? little is known about the nutritional adequacy and feasibility of breastmilk replacement options recommended by who/unaids/unicef. the study aim was to explore suitability of the 2001 feeding recommendations for infants of hiv-infected mothers for a rural region in kwazulu natal, south africa specifically with respect to adequacy of micronutrients and essential fatty acids, cost, and preparation times of replacement milks. nutritional adequacy, cost, and preparation time of home-prepared replacement milks containing powdered full cream milk (pm) and fresh full cream milk (fm) and different micronutrient supplements (2 g unicef micronutrient sachet, government supplement routinely available in district public health clinics, and best available liquid paediatric supplement found in local pharmacies) were compared. costs of locally available ingredients for replacement milk were used to calculate monthly costs for infants aged one, three, and six months. it took 21-25 minutes to optimally prepare 120 ml of replacement feed from pm or commercial infant formula and 30-35 minutes for the fresh milk preparation. no home-prepared replacement milks in south africa meet all estimated micronutrient and essential fatty acid requirements of infants aged <6 months. commercial infant formula is the only replacement milk that meets all nutritional needs. revisions of who/unaids/unicef hiv and infant feeding course replacement milk options are needed. if replacement milks are to provide total nutrition, preparations should include vegetable oils, such as soybean oil, as a source of linoleic and alpha-linolenic acids, and additional vitamins and minerals.
Is minilaparoscopic inguinal hernia repair feasible? [SEP] laparoscopic surgery: an effective and safe surgical method of pediatric inguinal hernia repair. inguinal hernia (ih) repair is very commonly performed in children. minilaparoscopy for inguinal hernia repair. fifty-eight laparoscopic inguinal hernia repairs were performed: 36 by traditional laparoscopic technique and 22 by minilaparoscopic instruments (mini). this study corroborates findings in previously published papers that have shown the feasibility of minilaparoscopy in laparoscopic tep hernia repair and its benefits regarding postoperative pain, operative time, and aesthetic outcomes. minilaparoscopic technique for inguinal hernia repair combining transabdominal pre-peritoneal and totally extraperitoneal approaches. in this study, we propose a hybrid technique that could potentially become the gold standard of minimally invasive inguinal hernia surgery. the minilaparoscopic tep-tapp combined approach for inguinal hernia is feasible, safe, and allows a simple endoscopic repair. is minilaparoscopic inguinal hernia repair feasible? while limited by its retrospective design, the present study indicates that the minilaparoscopic approach to groin hernia repair is safe and effective, making minitapp a challenging alternative to laparoscopy in the approach to groin hernia repair.
Surgical treatment of prosthetic valve endocarditis in patients with double prostheses: is single-valve replacement safe? [SEP] surgical treatment of prosthetic valve endocarditis in patients with double prostheses: is single-valve replacement safe? bias against operating on patients with prosthetic valve endocarditis (pve) who have multiple prostheses may preclude the use of life-saving valve replacement. we investigated the accuracy of the preoperative diagnosis of pve in patients with both mitral and aortic prosthesis and the safety of single-valve replacement when only one valve seemed infected. patients with a diagnosis of active pve who had mitral and aortic prosthesis in place were assessed. we looked at the methods for diagnosis, causative agents, indication for valve replacement, operative findings and outcome. twenty patients, who had both mitral and aortic prostheses and a diagnosis of pve, were assessed. by means of echocardiography, the valves involved were: mitral (11 patients), aortic (six patients), and in three cases both prosthetic valves seemed infected. the positive predictive value of transesophageal echocardiogram (tee) for the preoperative diagnosis of the site of infection was 100%. in 13 patients, only the prosthetic valve that seemed infected was replaced. echo-oriented single-valve replacement may be a safe strategy for patients with pve and double prostheses.
Epidural analgesia for surgical treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis: a risky technique? [SEP] epidural analgesia for cytoreductive surgery with peritonectomy and heated intraperitoneal chemotherapy. to evaluate epidural analgesia role after cytoreductive surgery with peritonectomy combined with heated intraperitoneal chemotherapy. 101 patients were retrospectively studied (between 2008 and 2012) to evaluate epidural analgesia effectiveness, tolerability and safety in this surgical context through the assessment of pain, detection of adverse events (nausea, vomiting, itching), temporary motor block, respiratory failure and coagulation profile in the post-operative period. epidural analgesia ensures adequate pain relief and is well tolerated by patients after cytoreductive surgery with peritonectomy combined with heated intraperitoneal chemotherapy. [epidural analgesia for surgical treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis: a risky technique?]. to study the risks of haemodynamic instability, and the possible occurrence of spinal haematoma, meningitis and epidural abscess when epidural analgesia is performed for cytoreductive surgery and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (hipec). postoperatively, a continuous epidural infusion of ropivacain, then a patient-controlled epidural analgesia were started. the epidural catheter was used peroperatively before hipec in 12 subjects (34%), and after hipec in 23 subjects (66%). in this series of 35 patients, the use of epidural analgesia for hipec does not seem to be associated with a worse risk of haemodynamic instability, spinal haematoma, meningitis or epidural abscess. hipec with platinum salt is not incompatible with the safety of epidural analgesia, with an optimized fluid management peroperatively and the following of perimedullary anesthesia practice guidelines.
Risk stratification in emergency surgical patients: is the APACHE II score a reliable marker of physiological impairment? [SEP] 
Are physicians meeting the needs of family caregivers of the frail elderly? [SEP] frail elderly people need an integrated and coordinated care. this study is expected to show positive effects on frail elderly peoples' health care consumption, functional abilities and satisfaction with health and social care. medical house call program: extending frail elderly medical care into the home. the current us healthcare system, focused mostly on acute and episodic care, has difficulty meeting the needs of ill, frail elderly and their families or other caregivers. are physicians meeting the needs of family caregivers of the frail elderly? to explore expressed needs, both formal and informal, of family caregivers of frail elderly. questionnaire survey of members of the montreal jewish community providing care for frail elderly family members. volunteer caregivers who were caring for a family member or friend 60 years or older, who had greatest responsibility for providing physical or emotional support to an elderly person, who saw themselves as caregivers, and who could speak english or french were studied. just under half of caregivers were dissatisfied with the attention they received from the health care system, and more than one third expressed feelings of stress, depression, guilt, and isolation. physicians may be uninterested in helping caregivers; even if they were receptive to counseling caregivers, they could be poorly remunerated for the types of counseling sessions that are usual for caregivers; and being a professional caregiver to family caregivers is demanding in itself.
Can nonproliferative breast disease and proliferative breast disease without atypia be distinguished by fine-needle aspiration cytology? [SEP] fine needle aspiration cytology (fnac) breast is generally considered as a rapid, reliable, and safe diagnostic tool to distinguish non-neoplastic from neoplastic breast lesions. can nonproliferative breast disease and proliferative breast disease without atypia be distinguished by fine-needle aspiration cytology? cytologic criteria reported to be helpful in the distinction of proliferative breast disease without atypia (pbd) from nonproliferative breast disease (npbd) have not been rigorously tested. fifty-one air-dried, diff-quik-stained fine-needle aspirates (fna) of palpable breast lesions with biopsy-proven diagnoses of npbd (34 cases) or pbd (17 cases) were reviewed. subclassification of benign breast disease by fine needle aspiration cytology. the cytologic and histologic features of 265 benign breast masses were analyzed in order to examine the ability of fine needle aspiration cytology to accurately subclassify benign breast lesions. we conclude that the majority of benign breast lesions yield characteristic cytologic findings that allow their subclassification when sufficiently sampled by fine needle aspiration. cytologic differentiation between proliferative and nonproliferative breast disease in mammographically guided fine-needle aspirates. therefore, the recognition of proliferative breast disease with atypia significantly impacts on the patient's subsequent management. this study suggests that it is possible to apply a cytologic grading system to further subclassify benign breast disease and distinguish these forms from neoplastic lesions.
Are Reviewers' Scores Influenced by Citations to Their Own Work? [SEP] are reviewers' scores influenced by citations to their own work? when serving as journal reviewers, they may be more favorably disposed to manuscripts that cite their work. we investigate whether manuscripts that contain a citation to the reviewer's work receive higher evaluations than those that do not and whether peer reviewers encourage authors to cite that reviewer's work. to determine whether citation affected reviewer scores, we obtained each reviewer's score of the manuscript's overall desirability (1=worst to 5=best) and used descriptive statistics and regression modeling to compare scores of cited and noncited reviewers. we also enumerated how often reviewers suggested that authors add citations to the reviewer's work or other work. the 83 reviews by cited reviewers (8.3%) had a mean score of 2.8 (sd 1.4); the 916 reviews by noncited reviewers (91.7%), 2.5 (1.2; δ=0.3; 95% confidence interval [ci] 0 to 0.6). the mean score in the 117 reviews of the noncited reviewers of the 57 manuscripts that had both cited and noncited reviewers was 2.9 (sd 1.2) compared with 2.9 (sd 1.1) for the 68 reviews by cited reviewers (δ=0; 95% ci -0.3 to 0.4). authors were asked to add a citation to the reviewer's work in 28 reviews (3%) but to others' work in 98 (10%). in a leading specialty journal, cited reviewers gave higher scores than noncited reviewers. reviewer requests that their work be cited were rare.
Does the central venous pressure predict fluid responsiveness? [SEP] point-of-care ultrasound for the prediction of fluid responsiveness in off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting surgery: a comparison between carotid doppler peak systolic velocity and inferior vena cava distensibility index: a prospective observational trial. evidence remains inconclusive regarding the ability of the inferior vena cava (ivc) distensibility index and common carotid doppler flow velocity parameters to predict fluid responsiveness before off-pump cardiac surgery. hemodynamic variables (mean arterial pressure, heart rate, central venous pressure, ivc distensibility index, common carotid doppler peak velocity, and transthoracic cardiac output [co]) were recorded before and after fluid loading. an increase in co of > 15% after the fluid challenge indicates fluid responsiveness. central venous pressure (cvp) is traditionally used, but the optimal strategy is uncertain. pulse pressure variation (ppv), a dynamic index, may better predict fluid responsiveness. static preload parameters such as central venous pressure have limited predictive value for fluid responsiveness, whereas dynamic indices (svv, ppv) may provide superior guidance under specific conditions.large randomized trials (e.g., optimise, ipegasus) failed to demonstrate consistent outcome benefits of standardized algorithms targeting fixed hemodynamic thresholds. validation of the inferior vena cava collapsibility as a predictive marker of fluid responsiveness in spontaneously breathing patients. in a previous derivation cohort, we found that inferior vena cava collapsibility (civc) thresholds of ≥ 33% during non-standardised breathing (civc-ns) and ≥ 44% during a standardised breathing manoeuvre (civc-st) identified fluid responsiveness (fr). hemodynamic parameters including avi, central venous pressure (cvp), stroke volume variation (svv), and pulse pressure variation (ppv) were recorded before and after volume expansion.
Memory-provoked rCBF-SPECT as a diagnostic tool in Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] memory-provoked rcbf-spect as a diagnostic tool in alzheimer's disease? rest regional cerebral blood flow (rcbf) could have a strategic role in differentiating between ad patients and normal controls, but its use for this purpose has a low discriminatory capacity. the purpose of this study was to evaluate whether the diagnostic sensitivity of rcbf single-photon emission computed tomography (spect) could be increased by using an episodic memory task provocation, i.e. memory-provoked rcbf-spect (mp-spect). the subjects were injected with (99m)tc-hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (hmpao) during memory provocation with faces and names, followed by an rcbf-spect study. the rcbf (99m)tc-hmpao spect images were analysed using statistical parametric mapping (spm2). on mp-spect, the ad group showed a significant rcbf reduction in the left parietal cortex in comparison with healthy elderly. memory provocation increased the sensitivity of rcbf-spect for the detection of ad-related blood flow changes in the brain at the group level. further studies are needed to evaluate mp-spect as a diagnostic tool at the individual level. if a higher sensitivity for ad at the individual level is verified in future studies, a single mp-spect study might be sufficient in the clinical setting.
Can we ease the financial burden of colonoscopy? [SEP] can we ease the financial burden of colonoscopy? using real-time endoscopic assessment of polyp histology to predict surveillance intervals. polyps identified at colonoscopy are predominantly diminutive (<5 mm) with a small risk (>1%) of high-grade dysplasia or carcinoma; however, the cost of histological assessment is substantial. the aim of this study was to determine whether prediction of colonoscopy surveillance intervals based on real-time endoscopic assessment of polyp histology is accurate and cost effective. ninety-four patients underwent colonoscopy and polypectomy of diminutive (≤5 mm) polyps from october 2012 to july 2013, yielding a total of 159 polyps. the endoscopic assessment (optical diagnosis) of polyp histology was used to predict appropriate colonoscopy surveillance intervals. the main outcome measure was the accuracy of optical diagnosis of diminutive colonic polyps against the gold standard of histological assessment. ninety-two (98%) patients were correctly triaged to their repeat surveillance colonoscopy. endoscopists within a tertiary care setting can accurately predict diminutive polyp histology and confer an appropriate surveillance interval with an associated financial benefit to the healthcare system. however, limitations to its application in the community setting exist, which may improve with further training and high-definition colonoscopes.
Is low birth weight a risk indicator for congenital cytomegalovirus infection? [SEP] contemporary strategies to mitigate transfusion-transmitted cytomegalovirus (cmv), including leukoreduction and cmv-seronegative donor selection, are discussed in the context of evidence demonstrating extremely low residual risk and maternal breast milk as the primary source of postnatal infection in vlbw infants. major risk factors such as maternal infections, like toxoplasmosis, others (syphilis, hepatitis b), rubella, cytomegalovirus, and herpes simplex (torch), craniofacial anomalies, low birth weight < 1,500 g, low appearance, pulse, grimace, activity and respiration (apgar) scores (0-4 at 1 minute and 0-6 at 5 minutes), and mechanical ventilation lasting for 5 days or longer, were significantly associated with hearing impairment at  newborn hearing screenings must be made mandatory, irrespective of risk factors. analysing risk factors for foetal growth outcomes - the influence of maternal conditions and congenital cytomegalovirus infection. various maternal, foetal, and placental risk factors were analysed, with a particular focus on congenital cytomegalovirus infection (ccmv). logistic regression analysis confirmed the association of covid-19 infection with foetal weight, while no significant effect was observed for cmv. no significant association between congenital cmv infection and foetal growth restriction was found in this cohort, which was most likely due to the low prevalence of ccmv. risk factors associated with late-onset hearing loss in children with congenital cytomegalovirus: a systematic review. to search for existing evidence of prognostic factors related to the development of late-onset hearing loss (lohl) in infants with congenital cytomegalovirus (ccmv). premature delivery and low body weight are frequently observed as high-risk factors, characterized by acute onset, rapid progression, and high mortality rates. pulmonary hemorrhage caused by cytomegalovirus infection in newborns with normal immune function is a rare occurrence.
Is external palliative radiotherapy for gallbladder carcinoma effective? [SEP] is external palliative radiotherapy for gallbladder carcinoma effective? external radiotherapy seems to be a safe and effective method of palliative management of gallbladder carcinoma. gallbladder cancer: role of radiation therapy. the aim of this report is to assess the value of radiotherapy in carcinoma of the gallbladder. primary carcinoma of the gallbladder: role of external beam radiation therapy in patients with locally advanced tumor. several reports have demonstrated that occasional long-term survival might be obtained with external beam radiation therapy in patients with gallbladder cancer. twenty-two patients with locally advanced gallbladder cancer were treated with high-dose external beam radiation therapy. it is concluded that high-dose external beam radiation therapy could improve survival in some patients with unresectable gallbladder cancer. the results of radiotherapy in 37 patients who were treated for carcinoma of the gallbladder from april 1975 to april 1992 are presented. intraoperative radiation therapy for carcinoma of the gallbladder.
Is discordance in TEOAE and AABR outcomes predictable in newborns? [SEP] is discordance in teoae and aabr outcomes predictable in newborns? to determine the perinatal predictors of discordant screening outcomes based on a two-stage screening protocol with transient-evoked otoacoustic emissions (teoae) and automated auditory brainstem response (aabr). a cross-sectional study of infants tested with teoae and aabr under a hospital-based universal newborn hearing screening program in lagos, nigeria. maternal and infant factors associated with discordant teoae and aabr outcomes were determined with multivariable logistic regression analyses adjusting for potential confounding factors. of the 4718 infants enrolled under the program 1745 (36.9%) completed both teoae and aabr. of this group, 1060 (60.7%) passed both teoae and aabr ("true-negatives"); 92 (5.3%) failed both teoae and aabr ("true-positive"); 571 (32.7%) failed teoae but passed aabr ("false-positives") while 22 (1.3%) passed teoae but failed aabr ("false-negatives"). infants with false-positives were likely to be admitted into well-baby nursery (p=0.001), belong to mothers who attended antenatal care (p=0.010) or who delivered vaginally (p<0.001) compared to infants with true-negatives while infants with true-positives were also more likely to be delivered vaginally (p=0.002) or admitted into well-baby nursery (p=0.035) compared to infants with false-negatives. infants with true-positives were significantly more likely to be delivered vaginally (p<0.001) and have severe hyperbilirubinemia (p=0.045) compared with infants with true-negatives. antenatal care status, mode of delivery and nursery type were useful predictors of discordant outcomes among all infants undergoing screening (c-statistic=0.73). given the available screening technologies, discordant teoae and aabr may be inevitable for some categories of hearing loss among apparently healthy newborns whose mothers received prenatal care.
Chemical shift MRI: is there any contribution to morphologic evaluation of solid breast masses? [SEP] chemical shift mri: is there any contribution to morphologic evaluation of solid breast masses? to investigate the contribution of chemical shift magnetic resonance imaging for assessment of the margins of solid breast masses by benefiting from india ink artifact. eighty-eight masses in 64 patients were evaluated in t1- and t2-weighted images, dynamic contrast and chemical shift studies according to breast imaging reporting and data system magnetic resonance lexicon. subtraction images were automatically obtained by chemical shift imaging and dynamic studies. breast parenchyma was evaluated as fatty and dense. in fatty breast, chemical shift subtraction and t1-weighted images were valuable both for the demonstration and differentiation of benign lesions (p < .05). none of the sequence was valuable for both the demonstration and differentiation of malignant lesions in fatty breasts (p > .05). in dense breasts, chemical shift subtraction and dynamic contrast subtraction images were valuable for both the demonstration and differentiation of benign and malignant lesions. chemical shift subtraction can contribute to routine dynamic contrast subtraction in morphologic analysis particularly for the evaluation of margins of benign lesions in fatty breasts. it can also help in morphologic analysis of masses in dense breast.
Do some U.S. states have higher/lower injury mortality rates than others? [SEP] do some u.s. states have higher/lower injury mortality rates than others? this article examines the hypothesis that the six u.s. states with the highest rates of road traffic deaths (group 1 states) also had above-average rates of other forms of injury such as falling, poisoning, drowning, fire, suffocation, homicide, and suicide, and also for the retail trade and construction industries. the converse, second hypothesis, for the six states with the lowest rates of road traffic deaths (group 2 states) is also examined. data for these 12 states for the period 1983 to 1995 included nine categories of unintentional and four categories of intentional injury. seventy-four percent of the group 1 states conformed to the first hypothesis, and 85% of the group 2 states conformed to the second hypothesis. group 1 states are likely to exhibit above-average rates for most other categories of injury death, whereas group 2 states are even more likely to exhibit below-average rates for most other categories of injury death.
Do European people with type 1 diabetes consume a high atherogenic diet? [SEP] do european people with type 1 diabetes consume a high atherogenic diet? 7-year follow-up of the eurodiab prospective complications study. individuals with type 1 diabetes have a high risk of developing cardiovascular diseases, and it has been reported that they consume a high atherogenic diet. we examined how nutrient intake and adherence to current european nutritional recommendations evolved in a large cohort of european individuals with type 1 diabetes over a period of 7 years. we analysed data from the eurodiab prospective complications study, a european multicentre prospective cohort study. standardized 3-day dietary records were employed in individuals with type 1 diabetes. reported protein (-0.35% energy (en), fat (-1.07% en), saturated fat (-0.25% en) and cholesterol (-7.42 mg/1000 kcal) intakes were lower, whereas carbohydrate (+1.23% en) and fibre (+0.46 g/1000 kcal) intakes were higher at the 7-year follow-up. european recommendations for adequate nutrient intakes were followed in individuals with type 1 diabetes for protein (76% at baseline and 78% at follow-up), moderately for fat (34, 40%), carbohydrate (34, 41%) and cholesterol (39, 47%), but poorly for fibre (1.4, 2.4%) and saturated fat (11, 13%). european individuals with type 1 diabetes consume a high atherogenic diet as few patients met recommendations for dietary fibre and saturated fat. this study showed minor changes in dietary nutrients and energy intakes over a period of 7 years.
Adults with mild intellectual disabilities: can their reading comprehension ability be improved? [SEP] adults with mild intellectual disabilities: can their reading comprehension ability be improved? adults with a mild intellectual disability (id) often show poor decoding and reading comprehension skills. the goal of this study was to investigate the effects of teaching text comprehension strategies to these adults. strategy instruction to individuals and strategy instruction in small groups in a reciprocal teaching context; (2) intervention programme effects on specific strategy tests (so-called direct effects), and possible differences between strategies; (3) (long-term) transfer effects of the programme on general reading comprehension ability; and (4) the regression of general text comprehension by the variables of technical reading, iq, reading comprehension of sentences (rcs), and pretest and posttest scores on the strategies taught. in total, 38 adults (age range 20-72 years; mean age of 36 years) with id participated in the study. iqs ranged from 45 to 69 with a mean iq of 58. blocks of lessons included each of brown and palincsar's strategies of summarizing, questioning, clarifying and predicting, as participants read and studied narrative and expository texts. third, even more substantial was the transfer effect to general text comprehension. finally, the variance of general reading comprehension ability was best explained by the test of rcs, and only moderately by the strategies trained. the presently used intervention programme provides a good starting point for adults with id to become better readers.
Do antibiotics decrease post-tonsillectomy morbidity? [SEP] prescribing antibiotics to the tonsillectomy patients in a tertiary care setting. antibiotics use after tonsillectomy is like any other surgical procedure; and it is thought that the antibiotic use may help to reduce post-operative morbidity. methods a prospective study was done on a cohort of 123 patients and they were divided into two groups on the basis of choice to receive or not to receive antibiotics after tonsillectomy, and these patients were followed in post-operative period to see any differences in the rate of complications. conclusion regular use of antibiotics in post-tonsillectomy patients should not be advised as the use of antibiotics do not prevent or reduce post-operative complications in tonsillectomy patients. is ginger effective in reducing post-tonsillectomy morbidity? factors influencing morbidity after paediatric tonsillectomy: a study of 18,712 patients in the national tonsil surgery register in sweden. the objective of this study was to examine factors affecting morbidity after tonsillectomy in children. do antibiotics decrease post-tonsillectomy morbidity? a tonsillectomy audit was carried out and compared with other studies, to emphasize the role of antibiotics. post tonsillectomy antibiotics did not prove to have a role in minimizing postoperative morbidity.
Body diffusion-weighted MR imaging of uterine endometrial cancer: is it helpful in the detection of cancer in nonenhanced MR imaging? [SEP] body diffusion-weighted mr imaging of uterine endometrial cancer: is it helpful in the detection of cancer in nonenhanced mr imaging? in this study, the authors discussed the feasibility and value of diffusion-weighted (dw) mr imaging in the detection of uterine endometrial cancer in addition to conventional nonenhanced mr images. dw images of endometrial cancer in 23 patients were examined by using a 1.5-t mr scanner. this study investigated whether or not dw images offer additional incremental value to conventional nonenhanced mr imaging in comparison with histopathological results. moreover, the apparent diffusion coefficient (adc) values were measured in the regions of interest within the endometrial cancer and compared with those of normal endometrium and myometrium in 31 volunteers, leiomyoma in 14 patients and adenomyosis in 10 patients. in 19 of 23 patients, endometrial cancers were detected only on t2-weighted images. in the remaining 4 patients, of whom two had coexisting leiomyoma, no cancer was detected on t2-weighted images. when dw images and fused dw images/t2-weighted images were used in addition to the t2-weighted images, cancers were identified in 3 of the remaining 4 patients in addition to the 19 patients (overall detection sensitivity of 96%). the mean adc value of endometrial cancer (n=22) was (0.97+/-0.19)x10(-3)mm(2)/s, which was significantly lower than those of the normal endometrium, myometrium, leiomyoma and adenomyosis (p<0.05). dw imaging can be helpful in the detection of uterine endometrial cancer in nonenhanced mr imaging.
Do inhaled steroids differ from cromones in terms of hospital admission rates for asthma in children? [SEP] do inhaled steroids differ from cromones in terms of hospital admission rates for asthma in children? the aim of the present study was to investigate the characteristics of hospital admissions in two child populations receiving different types of drugs as their regular medication for steady-state asthma. annual data on children aged under 16 y treated for asthma, including consumption of regular medication for asthma, numbers of hospital periods, lengths of hospitalizations and annual proportions of readmissions, were collected using patient-specific medical records from 1995 to 1999. in the kuopio province, on average, 35.6-36.7/1000 children were on maintenance for asthma, of which 23% were receiving cromones, 51% were taking inhaled steroids and 26% were treated with cromones plus intermittent steroids. in the oulu province, the respective prevalence was 32.7-34.9/1000, and the respective proportions were 5%, 93% and 2%. total and first admissions, as well as hospital days were clearly less in the oulu province. in the children aged > or = 6y, the average annual total admissions were 0.3/1000 (oulu) vs 1.2/1000 (kuopio) (p < 0.001). similarly, the first admissions were 0.2/1000 vs 1.0/1000 (p < 0.001), proportions of readmissions 6.3% vs 19.3% (p < 0.05), and numbers of hospital days 0.7/1000 vs 3.8/1000 (p < 0.001). the differences were in the same direction, though less prominent, also among children 2-5 y of age. our results suggest that inhaled steroids are better than cromones in preventing admissions for asthma when two provinces with different practices for maintenance medication of steady-state asthma were compared.
Substance use and HIV-related sexual behaviors among US high school students: are they related? [SEP] trends in hiv-related risk behaviors among high school students--united states, 1991-2005. young persons who engage in unprotected sexual intercourse or use injection drugs are at increased risk for human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection. however, many students still engage in hiv-related risk behaviors. substance use and hiv-related sexual behaviors among us high school students: are they related? this study was undertaken to examine whether use of alcohol, cigarettes, marijuana, cocaine, and other illicit drugs is related to the likelihood of sexual behaviors that increase risk for human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection among youth. adjusted for age, sex, and race/ethnicity, odds ratios for each of these sexual risk behaviors were greatest among students who had used marijuana, cocaine, or other illicit drugs. hiv prevention programs for youth should recognize that substance use may be an important indicator of risk for hiv infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome through its association with unsafe sexual behaviors. changes in hiv-related information sources, instruction, knowledge, and behaviors among us high school students, 1989 and 1990. this analysis examines changes in the prevalence of self-reported hiv-related information sources, instruction, knowledge, and behaviors among high school students in the united states. the findings suggest that school-based hiv education and knowledge may be contributing factors in reducing certain risk behaviors that can lead to hiv transmission among secondary school youth.
Does sex influence the response to intravenous thrombolysis in ischemic stroke? [SEP] does sex influence the response to intravenous thrombolysis in ischemic stroke? : answers from safe implementation of treatments in stroke-international stroke thrombolysis register. women are more likely to have a worse outcome after an acute stroke than men. some studies have suggested that women also benefit less from intravenous thrombolysis after an acute ischemic stroke, but others found no sex differences in safety and efficacy. we aimed to evaluate differences in 3-month outcome between sexes in intravenous tissue-type plasminogen activator-treated patients registered in the safe implementation of treatments in stroke-international stroke thrombolysis register. a total of 45 079 patients treated with intravenous alteplase were recorded from 2002 to 2011. main outcome measures were symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage, functional independence (modified rankin scale score, 0-2), and mortality at 3 months. among 25 777 (57.2%) men and 19 302 (42.8%) women, we found no difference in the rate of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (p=0.13), a significantly higher likelihood of functional independence at 3 months in men (p<0.0001) and a higher mortality in women when compared with men (p<0.00001). after adjustment for confounding variables, we did not observe any difference between sexes in functional outcome (odds ratio, 1.03; 95% confidence interval, 0.97-1.09; p=0.39), whereas male sex was related to a higher risk of mortality (odds ratio, 1.19; 95% confidence interval, 1.10-1.29; p=0.00003) and symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (odds ratio, 1.25, 95% confidence interval, 1.04-1.51; p=0.02). data from safe implementation of treatments in stroke-international stroke thrombolysis register suggest that intravenous thrombolysis may modify the observed survival and recovery advantage for men expected in the natural course of an ischemic stroke, with a possible larger beneficial treatment effect in women when compared with men.
Thrombosis prophylaxis in hospitalised medical patients: does prophylaxis in all patients make sense? [SEP] nursing interventions significantly reduce surgical site infections, poor incision healing and dvt, underscoring their role in perioperative care. standardized intervention protocols and targeted studies are needed to optimize nursing care in orthopaedic surgery. additionally, adhering to postoperative care instructions, such as deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis, is vital to prevent fatal complications. the aim of this trial is to assess whether pmp block can improve postoperative analgesia, promote early recovery and reduce the length of hospital stay. the incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting (ponv) (p = 0.015, power = 70%), abdominal distension (p = 0.024, power = 64%), and muscular calf vein thrombosis (mcvt) (p = 0.033, power = 58%) was lower in the espb group than in the control group. while it will not increase the risk of continued high glucose, postoperative wound infection and venous thrombosis. delayed aggravation due to spinal venous thrombosis following successful embolization has been reported; however, perioperative management strategies to prevent thrombosis have not been explored. perioperative anticoagulation therapy was administered to selected patients. rescue anticoagulation for delayed worsening improved symptoms in two patients. back pain is an important finding that suggests venous thrombosis, and anticoagulation should be urgently administered.
Do teleoncology models of care enable safe delivery of chemotherapy in rural towns? [SEP] do teleoncology models of care enable safe delivery of chemotherapy in rural towns? to compare the dose intensity and toxicity profiles for patients undergoing chemotherapy at the townsville cancer centre (tcc), a tertiary cancer centre in northern queensland, with those for patients treated in mount isa, supervised by the same medical oncologists via teleoncology. tcc and mount isa hospital, which both operate under the auspices of the townsville teleoncology network (ttn). eligible patients who received chemotherapy at tcc or mt isa hospital between 1 may 2007 and 30 april 2012. teleoncology model for managing cancer patients in rural towns. dose intensity (doses, number of cycles and lines of treatment) and toxicity rates (rate of serious side effects, hospital admissions and mortality). over 5 years, 89 patients received a total of 626 cycles of various chemotherapy regimens in mount isa. during the same period, 117 patients who received a total of 799 cycles of chemotherapy at tcc were eligible for inclusion in the comparison group. there were no significant differences between the mount isa and tcc patients in most demographic characteristics, mean numbers of treatment cycles, dose intensities, proportions of side effects, and hospital admissions. it appears safe to administer chemotherapy in rural towns under the supervision of medical oncologists from larger centres via teleoncology, provided that rural health care resources and governance arrangements are adequate.
Does Paget's disease exist in India? [SEP] paget's disease (pd) is the most common metabolic bone disorder after osteoporosis. paget's disease of bone: an entity still exists in india. paget's disease of bone (pdb) is uncommonly reported from india. co-existence of extramammary paget's disease and bowen's disease of vulva. we present a case of vulval paget's disease with bowen's disease in an elderly female. does paget's disease exist in india? paget's disease of bone has been described as a few case reports from india. the aim of the present study is to document the existence of paget's disease (pd) in india. fifteen (71.4%) patients had polyostotic and six (28.6%) had monoostotic paget's disease. this illustrates that paget's disease does exist in india and a high index of suspicion is required to clinch the diagnosis.
Is There an Additional Value of Using Somatostatin Receptor Subtype 2a Immunohistochemistry Compared to Somatostatin Receptor Scintigraphy Uptake in Predicting Gastroenteropancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumor Response? [SEP] is there an additional value of using somatostatin receptor subtype 2a immunohistochemistry compared to somatostatin receptor scintigraphy uptake in predicting gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumor response? it is unknown whether tumoral somatostatin receptor subtype 2a (sst2a) immunohistochemistry (ihc) has additional value compared to somatostatin receptor scintigraphy (srs) uptake using octreoscan® in predicting response to peptide receptor radiotherapy using 177lu-octreotate (prrt) in patients with gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (gep-nets). the aims of this study were: (1) to establish the percentage of sst2a immunopositivity in gep-net samples of prrt-treated patients, (2) to determine the relationship between best gep-net response using recist 1.0 criteria 1 year after prrt and tumoral sst2a ihc, and (3) to compare characteristics of patients with sst2a ihc-negative and -positive tumors. all 73 consecutive patients were selected for prrt based on a positive srs. radiological response was scored according to recist 1.0 criteria. sst2a status was detected on tumor samples by ihc. in total, 93% of gep-net samples showed sst2a ihc positivity. no statistically significant relationship was observed between in vitro sst2a expression and in vivo best gep-net response 1 year after prrt (p = 0.47). sex, primary tumor site, disease stage, enets tnm classification, ki-67 index, highest serum chromogranin-a level, and highest neuron-specific enolase level were not significantly different between patients with negative and positive sst2a tumoral ihc with the exception of age at diagnosis (p = 0.007). sst2a ihc of tumor samples has no additional value compared to srs uptake using octreoscan® in predicting tumor response after prrt.
Can vaginal pH be measured from the wet mount slide? [SEP] diagnostic value of vaginal discharge, wet mount and vaginal ph - an update on the basics of gynecologic infectiology. tests include measurement of vaginal ph, preparation and assessment of wet mount slides prepared from vaginal or cervical discharge, and the correct clinical and microbiological classification of findings. zu dieser untersuchung gehören die messung des vaginalen ph-wertes, die anfertigung und beurteilung eines nativpräparats aus vaginalem bzw. can vaginal ph be measured from the wet mount slide? to assess the accuracy of vaginal ph measurement on wet mount microscopy slides compared with direct measurements on fresh vaginal fluid. we also tested whether differences in accuracy were dependent on the sampling devices used or on the diagnosis of the vaginal infections. using a cotton swab, cytobrush or wooden spatula a vaginal fluid specimen was collected from 84 consecutive women attending a vulvo-vaginitis clinic. a ph strip (ph range 4-7, merck) was brought in contact with the vaginal fluid on the sampling device and on the glass slide after adding one droplet of saline and performing microscopy by two different people unaware of the microscopy results of the clinical exam. ph measurement from microscopy slides after the addition of saline causes systematic increases of ph leading to false positive readings. vaginal ph should be measured by bringing the ph strip in direct contact with fresh vaginal fluid without first adding saline.
Does Molecular Genotype Provide Useful Information in the Management of Radioiodine Refractory Thyroid Cancers? [SEP] does molecular genotype provide useful information in the management of radioiodine refractory thyroid cancers? whether mutation status should be used to guide therapy is an important issue in many cancers. we correlated mutation profile in radioiodine-refractory (rair) metastatic thyroid cancers (tcs) with patient outcome and response to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis), and discussed the results with other published data. outcome in 82 consecutive patients with metastatic rair thyroid carcinoma prospectively tested for braf, ras and pi3kca mutations was retrospectively analyzed, including 55 patients treated with multikinase inhibitors. papillary thyroid carcinomas (ptcs) were the most frequent histological subtype (54.9 %), followed by poorly differentiated thyroid carcinoma [pdtc] (30.5 %) and follicular thyroid carcinoma [ftc] (14.6 %). median progression-free survival (pfs) on first-line tki treatment was 14.6 months (95% ci 9.9-18.4). braf mutation positively influenced median pfs, both in the entire tki-treated cohort (median pfs 34.7 months versus 11.6 months; hazard ratio [hr] 0.29; 95% ci 0.09-0.98; p = 0.03) and in the tki-treated ptc cohort (n = 22) [log-rank p = 0.086; hr 2.95; 95 % ci 0.81-10.70). however, in tki-treated patients, pdtc histologic subtype was the only independent prognostic factor for pfs identified in the multivariate analysis (hr 2.36; 95% ci 1.01-5.54; p = 0.048). patients with braf-mutant ptc had a significantly longer pfs than braf wild-type when treated with tkis. however, due to the small number of braf-mutant patients, further investigations are required, especially to understand the potential positive effect of braf mutations in rair tc patients while having a negative prognostic impact in rai-sensitive ptc patients.
Screening for gestational diabetes mellitus: are the criteria proposed by the international association of the Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups cost-effective? [SEP] gestational diabetes mellitus: new thinking on diagnostic criteria. how should we screen for gestational diabetes? regarding the various aspects of screening strategies for gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) and to express important conclusions, the recent literature in the field is reviewed. currently, the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists, the society of obstetricians and gynaecologists of canada, and the u.k. national institute for health and clinical excellence recommend routine risk-factor-based screening, whereas the canadian diabetes association, australasian diabetes in pregnancy society, u.s. preventive services task force, and atlantic diabetes in pregnancy recommend that all asymptomatic women should be screened at 24-28 weeks' gestation. nih consensus development conference: diagnosing gestational diabetes mellitus. the international association of diabetes and pregnancy study groups (iadpsg) has proposed diagnostic thresholds based on demonstrated associations between glycemic levels and an increased risk of obstetric and perinatal morbidities. screening for gestational diabetes mellitus: are the criteria proposed by the international association of the diabetes and pregnancy study groups cost-effective? the international association of the diabetes and pregnancy study groups (iadpsg) recently recommended new criteria for diagnosing gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm). we developed a decision analysis model comparing the cost-utility of three strategies to identify gdm: 1) no screening, 2) current screening practice (1-h 50-g glucose challenge test between 24 and 28 weeks followed by 3-h 100-g glucose tolerance test when indicated), or 3) screening practice proposed by the iadpsg. the iadpsg recommendation for glucose screening in pregnancy is cost-effective.
Are higher rates of depression in women accounted for by differential symptom reporting? [SEP] however, this trend only held for non-hispanic white women, for whom higher deprivation has significantly higher prevalence rates than lower deprivation (30.6% vs 18.7%,  one in five women in our study was diagnosed with perinatal psychiatric illness. are higher rates of depression in women accounted for by differential symptom reporting? the gender difference in prevalence and incidence rates of depression is one of the most consistent findings in psychiatric epidemiology. we sought to examine whether any gender differences in symptom profile might account for this difference in rates. we applied structural equations with a measurement model for dichotomous data (the mimic-multiple indicators, multiple causes-model) to compare symptoms between women and men, in relation to the nine symptom groups comprising the diagnostic criteria for major depression, adjusting for several potentially influential characteristics (namely, age, self-reported ethnicity, educational attainment, marital status, and employment). there were no significant gender differences in the self-report of depression symptoms even taking into account the higher level of depressive symptoms of women and the influence of other covariates. for example, women were no more likely to endorse sadness than were men, as evidenced by a direct effect coefficient that was not significantly different from the null [adjusted estimated direct effect of gender on report of sadness = 0.105, 95% confidence interval (-0.113, 0.323)]. men and women in this community sample reported similar patterns of depressive symptoms. no evidence that the presentation of depressive symptoms differs by gender was found. differences are considered according to gender and experience of failure i.e.
Follow-up of patients with new cardiovascular implantable electronic devices: are experts' recommendations implemented in routine clinical practice? [SEP] follow-up of patients with new cardiovascular implantable electronic devices: are experts' recommendations implemented in routine clinical practice? a 2008 expert consensus statement outlined the minimum frequency of follow-up of patients with cardiovascular implantable electronic devices (cieds). we studied 38 055 medicare beneficiaries who received a new cied between january 1, 2005, and june 30, 2009. the main outcome measure was variation of follow-up by patient factors and year of device implantation. we determined the number of patients who were eligible for and attended an in-person cied follow-up visit within 2 to 12 weeks, 0 to 16 weeks, and 1 year after implantation. among eligible patients, 42.4% had an initial in-person visit within 2 to 12 weeks. follow-up within 2 to 12 weeks improved from 40.3% in 2005 to 55.1% in 2009 (p<0.001 for trend). the rate of follow-up within 0 to 16 weeks was 65.1% and improved considerably from 2005 to 2009 (62.3%-79.6%; p<0.001 for trend). within 1 year, 78.0% of the overall population had at least 1 in-person cied follow-up visit. although most medicare beneficiaries who received a new cied between 2005 and 2009 did not have an initial in-person cied follow-up visit within 2 to 12 weeks after device implantation, the rate of initial follow-up improved appreciably over time.
Serum angiotensin-converting enzyme and frequency of severe hypoglycaemia in Type 1 diabetes: does a relationship exist? [SEP] serum angiotensin-converting enzyme and frequency of severe hypoglycaemia in type 1 diabetes: does a relationship exist? an association has been described between elevated serum angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) and an increased risk of severe hypoglycaemia (sh). people with type 1 diabetes, none of whom was taking renin-angiotensin system blocking drugs, were recruited. glycated haemoglobin (hba(1c)) and serum ace were measured. the difference in the incidence of sh between different quartiles of ace activity and the relationship between serum ace and sh were examined using non-parametric statistical tests and a negative binomial model. data were obtained from 300 patients [158 male; hba(1c) median (range) 8.2% (5.2-12.8%), median age 36 years (16-88); duration of diabetes 14.5 years (2-49)]. the mean incidence of sh in the top and bottom quartiles of ace activity was 0.5 and 1.7 episodes per patient year, respectively, but this difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.075). spearman's test showed a very weak, although statistically significant, association between serum ace level and sh incidence (r = 0.115, p = 0.047). the binomial model also showed a statistically significant (p = 0.002), but clinically weak, relationship between serum ace and sh. the present survey showed a weak relationship between serum ace and the frequency of sh, the clinical relevance of which is unclear.
Cervical spine fractures in geriatric blunt trauma patients with low-energy mechanism: are clinical predictors adequate? [SEP] cervical spine fractures in geriatric blunt trauma patients with low-energy mechanism: are clinical predictors adequate? studies have identified clinical predictors to guide radiologic evaluation of the cervical spine in geriatric patients. we hypothesized that clinical predictors are not adequate in the identification of cervical spine fractures in geriatric blunt trauma patients with low-energy mechanism. a retrospective case-control study was performed on geriatric blunt trauma patients sustaining low-energy trauma from january 2000 to january 2006. a data form including 8 clinical predictors was completed for each group. there were 35 study and 64 control patients identified. both groups were similar in age (study 83.6 vs control 81.2) and injury severity score (study 9.06 vs control 9.61). only neck tenderness exceeded the expected occurrence in the presence of a cervical spine injury (chi(2) = 18.1, p = .001) in just 45.5% of the study group. clinical predictors appear inadequate for the evaluation of the cervical spine in geriatric trauma patients with low-energy mechanism.
Do microbiological factors account for poor pregnancy outcome among unmarried pregnant women in Poland? [SEP] do microbiological factors account for poor pregnancy outcome among unmarried pregnant women in poland? being unmarried is a well-known risk factor for poor pregnancy outcome such as preterm delivery and intrauterine growth restriction. the aim of this prospective study was to assess the prevalence and risk of bacterial vaginosis (bv) and selected bacteria isolated from the lower genital tract and to determine the socioeconomic and microbiological characteristics that might be responsible for poor pregnancy outcome observed among unmarried pregnant women. the study population comprised 196 pregnant women attending 10 randomly selected outpatient maternity units in the lodz region, central poland. among 196 pregnant women, 40 (20.4%) were unmarried. in the univariate analysis, unmarried pregnant women were characterized by younger age, primary educational level, poor economic situation and excessive smoking during pregnancy, as compared to married women. an analysis of the microbiological culture from the lower genital tract revealed that unmarried pregnant women had a higher risk for several types of pathological microflora, as compared to married women. the observed socioeconomic, demographic and microbiological differences between unmarried and married women could be responsible for the poor pregnancy outcome among unmarried pregnant women in poland. unmarried pregnant women should be covered by comprehensive medical care even before pregnancy. further studies taking into account the role of psychological stress, patterns of sexual behavior and substance abuse during pregnancy could help identify the factors responsible for adverse pregnancy outcome among unmarried pregnant women.
Should all patients be optimized to the same preoperative hemoglobin level to avoid transfusion in primary knee arthroplasty? [SEP] 
Is there any relation between cervical cord plaques and discopathy in patients with multiple sclerosis? [SEP] is there any relation between cervical cord plaques and discopathy in patients with multiple sclerosis? multiple sclerosis (ms) is the most common chronic autoimmune demyelinating disease of the central nervous system. the purpose of this study is to determine the relationship between the site of the cervical discopathy and cervical spinal cord plaque in ms patients. all patients underwent cervical magnetic resonance imaging (mri) for primary investigation of the disease. cervical mri scans were evaluated for detection of any evidence of cervical discopathy and cervical ms plaques. any correlation between the site of the ms lesions and discopathy was recorded. from 536 patients who were involved in the study, 214 patients had both cervical discopathy and cervical cord plaques. in this group 148 (69.1% of patients) had cervical plaque at the same site of cervical discopathy. the number of patients with cervical cord plaque and discopathy at same site was significantly higher than those with plaque and discopathy at different sites (p<0.05). the study data suggests a possible correlation between cervical discopathy and cervical ms plaque.
Prognosis of low-tone sudden deafness - does it inevitably progress to Meniere's disease? [SEP] prognosis of low-tone sudden deafness - does it inevitably progress to meniere's disease? we conclude that not all low-tone sudden deafness (sd) patients suffered from endolymphatic hydrops even if they had vertigo attack at the onset and that electrocochleography (ecochg) was a useful prognostic tool. to investigate whether low-tone sd was a precursor of meniere's disease and whether patients with low-tone sd suffered from endolymphatic hydrops. this was a retrospective case review in the university hospital. a total of 184 patients with low-tone sd were divided into two groups with single and recurrent episodes. the progress, follow-up audiograms, and ecochg results of the patients were reviewed and compared with those of patients with high-tone sd and meniere's disease. in all, 83 of 177 patients with low-tone sd unaccompanied by vertigo had recurrent hearing loss; 15 of the 83 developed vertiginous attacks. three of the seven patients with low-tone sd accompanied by vertigo had recurrent hearing loss; two of the three were subsequently confirmed to have meniere's disease. no difference in rate of progress from sd to meniere's disease was observed among the low-tone and the high-tone sd groups. the average -sp/ap of each group with a single episode is smaller than that of other groups with recurrent episodes and meniere's disease.
Can pictorial warning labels on cigarette packages address smoking-related health disparities? [SEP] can pictorial warning labels on cigarette packages address smoking-related health disparities? field experiments in mexico to assess pictorial warning label content. the objective of this study was to determine the most effective content of pictorial health warning labels (hwls) and whether educational attainment moderates these effects. field experiments were conducted with 529 adult smokers and 530 young adults (258 nonsmokers; 271 smokers). participants reported responses to different pictorial hwls printed on cigarette packages. tests of mean ratings and rankings indicated that pictorial hwls with didactic textual forms had equivalent or significantly higher credibility, relevance, and impact than pictorial hwls with testimonial forms. results from mixed-effects models confirmed these results. in the second experiment, with textual content held constant, greater credibility, relevance, and impact was found for graphic imagery of diseased organs than imagery of human suffering. pictorial hwls with didactic textual forms seem to work better than those with testimonial narratives. future research should determine which pictorial hwl content has the greatest real-world impact among consumers from disadvantaged groups, including assessment of how hwl content should change to maintain its impact as tobacco control environments strengthen and consumer awareness of smoking-related risks increases.
Does patient-prosthesis mismatch after aortic valve replacement affect survival and quality of life in elderly patients? [SEP] impact of patient-prosthesis mismatch following aortic valve replacement on long-term survival and quality of life. the impact of patient-prosthesis mismatch (ppm) after aortic valve replacement (avr) on long-term survival and quality of life (qol) remains controversial. impact of mild patient prosthesis mismatch on quality of life in patients with preserved ejection fraction after isolated aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis. to analyze whether ppm affects qol and functional status in patients after isolated avr for aortic stenosis (as) with preserved left ventricular ejection fraction (lvef). does patient-prosthesis mismatch after aortic valve replacement affect survival and quality of life in elderly patients? to evaluate the impact of patient-prosthesis mismatch (ppm) on survival, functional status, and quality of life (qol) after aortic valve replacement (avr) with small prosthesis size in elderly patients. between january 2005 and december 2013, 152 patients with pure aortic stenosis, aged at least 75 years, underwent avr, with a 19 or 21 mm prosthetic heart valve. aortic valve replacement with smaller prostheses in elderly patients: does patient prosthetic mismatch affect outcomes? to evaluate the influence of patient-prosthesis mismatch (ppm) on survival, and quality of life (qol) after aortic valve replacement (avr) in elderly patients with small prosthesis size. between 2005 and 2010, 142 patients older than 65 years were discharged from the hospital after avr with 19 or 21 mm prosthesis for aortic stenosis.
Is fear of anaphylactic shock discouraging surgeons from more widely adopting percutaneous and laparoscopic techniques in the treatment of liver hydatid cyst? [SEP] is fear of anaphylactic shock discouraging surgeons from more widely adopting percutaneous and laparoscopic techniques in the treatment of liver hydatid cyst? sources of reports about laparoscopic and percutaneous treatment of liver hydatid cysts are limited to just a few countries. to address the reason behind this, we carried out a survey of 30 surgeons in northern jordan. a questionnaire was distributed to collect data regarding the surgical technique preferred by each surgeon. further information was collected from those not adopting minimal-access techniques to determine their reasons for not doing so. only 3 surgeons (10%) considered laparoscopy as the first line of treatment. of the 27 surgeons who did not consider percutaneous or laparoscopic treatment, fear of anaphylaxis and/or dissemination was the main reason given by 21 surgeons (78%) for not using minimal access techniques. the seemingly exaggerated traditional fear of anaphylaxis seems to discourage surgeons from more widely adopting minimal access techniques for the treatment of hydatid cyst.
Reporting and interpreting red blood cell morphology: is there discordance between clinical pathologists and clinicians? [SEP] reporting and interpreting red blood cell morphology: is there discordance between clinical pathologists and clinicians? clinical pathologists (cps) report rbc morphologic (rbc-m) changes to assist clinicians in prioritizing differential diagnoses. reporting decisions vary among cps, and reports may not be interpreted by clinicians as intended. the aims of this study were to survey clinicians and cps about rbc-m terms and their clinical value, and identify areas of agreement and discordance. a quiz assessed understanding of rbc-m terms among respondent groups. both clinicians and cps considered some terms, e.g., agglutination, useful, whereas only cps considered other terms, e.g., ghost cells, useful. all groups interpreted certain terms, e.g., heinz bodies, correctly, whereas some clinicians misinterpreted others, e.g., eccentrocytes. responses revealed that cps often do not report rbc-m they consider insignificant, when present in low numbers. twenty-eight percent of clinicians think cps review all blood smears while only 19% of cps report reviewing all smears. important differences about the clinical relevance of certain rbc-m terms exist between clinicians and cps.
Does β-catenin have a role in pathogenesis of sebaceous cell carcinoma of the eyelid? [SEP] both loss of e-cadherin at the cell membrane and a stabilizing mutation in ctnnb1 (β-catenin gene) have been associated with ovarian, colorectal, hepatocellular and nonmelanoma skin cancer, such as squamous and basal cell carcinomas. to determine the role of e-cadherin promoter hypermethylation and ctnnb1 gene mutation in the aggressive behaviour of sebaceous gland carcinoma of the eyelid. dna sequencing revealed no stabilizing β-catenin gene mutation in sebaceous gland carcinoma. mutations in the β-catenin gene do not seem to be involved in the pathogenesis of eyelid sebaceous gland carcinoma. does β-catenin have a role in pathogenesis of sebaceous cell carcinoma of the eyelid? expression of β-catenin in sebaceous cell carcinoma (sbcc) of the eyelid and its correlation with histopathological features. cytoplasmic overexpression of β-catenin was seen in 66% cases of sbcc which correlated positively with tumour size, orbital invasion and pagetoid spread. cytoplasmic overexpression of β-catenin was observed in the majority of the cases of sbcc of eyelid, and this correlated significantly with tumour size. the authors therefore hypothesise that β-catenin overexpression in sbcc of eyelid may be a result of wnt/β-catenin pathway dysregulation. however, its role both in the development of sebaceous cell carcinoma of the eyelid as well as its prognosis needs to be explored further.
Is ultrasound equal to X-ray in pediatric fracture diagnosis? [SEP] this study aims to compare the radiological and functional outcomes of long arm casting versus splinting in the nonsurgical treatment of pediatric supracondylar humerus fractures classified as modified gartland type i and iia. the described novel technique provided adequate pain relief and satisfactory mri image quality for a paediatric midshaft femoral fracture patient. wrist fractures are among the most common upper limb injuries in children and are currently examined by x-rays. ultrasound imaging offers a radiation-free alternative that can be used for a fast and effective evaluation by assessing the severity of suspected fractures before further referral to x-rays. in an emergency care setting, this approach could be integrated into an effective triage tool to assess the severity of pediatric wrist injuries and reduce the need for x-ray examination in cases with no fractures. pediatric blunt thoracolumbar spinal injury: defining the burden of injury and imaging practices. current guidelines recommend ct scanning of the entire spine if one spinal injury is found, and localized ct if spinal injury is suspected, likely resulting in significant radiation exposure for these injuries. older children were more likely to be evaluated with ct and younger children were more likely to be evaluated with mri. the optimal treatment of distal tibia physeal fractures in pediatric patients remains controversial. this study compares outcomes of slc versus llc in treating these fractures in pediatric patients.
Measuring hospital mortality rates: are 30-day data enough? [SEP] to estimate the effects of hospital admissions on health outcomes and health care spending among pwd. death, inpatient days (excluding the index hospital admission), and health care spending (excluding the index ed visit and hospital admission) within 30 and 90 days of ed visits. there was no evidence that hospital admission was associated with 30-day mortality rate (adjusted risk difference, -2.6 percentage points [pp] [95% ci, -5.2 to 0.1 pp]) or inpatient days (adjusted difference, 0.1 days [ci, -0.2 to 0.5 days]). hospital admission was associated with higher 30-day health care spending (adjusted difference, $2547 [ci, $1390 to $3703]). under conventional statistical criteria, an effect of hospital admissions between a 5.2-pp decrease and a 0.1-pp increase in 30-day mortality rates was highly compatible with the data. primary outcomes were 30-day all-cause readmission and mortality. secondary outcomes included emergency department length of stay, unplanned intensive care unit (icu) admission, and 30-day complication rate. the primary outcome was 30-day all-cause mortality; 90-day and 180-day mortality rates were secondary outcomes. the 30-day, 90-day, and 180-day mortality rates were 22.6%, 26.6%, and 29.8%, respectively. as a continuous variable, a higher hgi was associated with lower 30-day mortality (hazard ratio [hr] 0.83, 95% confidence interval [ci]: 0.73-0.95) and lower 90-day mortality (hr 0.86, 95% ci: 0.76-0.98).
Hearing loss: an unknown complication of pre-eclampsia? [SEP] hearing loss: an unknown complication of pre-eclampsia? the aim of this study was to determine whether pre-eclampsia is a risk factor for cochlear damage and sensorineural hearing impairment. this prospective case-control study consisted of 33 patients with pre-eclampsia and 32 normotensive pregnant patients as controls. all of the subjects underwent otoscopic examinations - pure tone audiometry (0.25-16 khz) and transient evoked otoacoustic emission (1-4 khz) tests - during their third trimester of pregnancy. the mean ages of the patients with pre-eclampsia and the control subjects were 29.6 ± 5.7 and 28.6 ± 5.3 years, respectively. the baseline demographic characteristics, including age, gravidity, parity number, and gestational week, were similar between the two patient groups. hearing thresholds in the right ear at 1, 4, 8, and 10 khz and in the left ear at 8 and 10 khz were significantly higher in the patients with pre-eclampsia compared to the control subjects. the degree of systolic blood pressure measured at the time of diagnosis had a deteriorating effect on hearing at 8, 10, and 12 khz in the right ear and at 10 khz in the left ear. pre-eclampsia is a potential risk factor for cochlear damage and sensorineural hearing loss. further studies that include routine audiological examinations are needed in these patients.
Is portable ultrasonography accurate in the evaluation of Schanz pin placement during extremity fracture fixation in austere environments? [SEP] is portable ultrasonography accurate in the evaluation of schanz pin placement during extremity fracture fixation in austere environments? the purpose of this study was to investigate the efficacy of ultrasonography to confirm schanz pin placement in a cadaveric model, and the interobserver repeatability of the ultrasound methodology. cadaveric preparation and observations were done by an orthopaedic traumatologist and resident, and two general surgery traumatologists. a total of 16 schanz pins were equally placed in bilateral femora and tibiae. four examiners took measurements of pin protrusion beyond the distal cortices using first ultrasonography and then by direct measurement after gross dissection. distal schanz pin protrusion length measurements from both ultrasonography and direct measurement post dissection. schanz pin protrusion measurements are underestimated by ultrasonography (p < 0.01) by an average of 10 percent over the range of 5 to 18 mm, and they display a proportional bias that increases the under reporting as the magnitude of pin protrusion increases. ultrasound data demonstrate good linear correlation and closely represent actual protrusion values in the 5 to 12 mm range. interobserver repeatability analysis demonstrated that all examiners were not statistically different in their measurements despite minimal familiarity with the ultrasound methodology (p > 0.8). despite the statistical imparity of pin protrusion measurement via ultrasound compared to that of gross dissection, a consideration of the clinical relevance of ultrasound measurement bias during an austere operating theatre leads to the conclusion that ultrasonography is an adequate methodology for schanz pin protrusion measurement.
Medical student education in emergency medicine: do students meet the national standards for clinical encounters of selected core conditions? [SEP] 
A model of healing of Los Angeles grades C and D reflux oesophagitis: is there an optimal time of acid suppression for maximal healing? [SEP] 
Gadofosveset-enhanced MR angiography of carotid arteries: does steady-state imaging improve accuracy of first-pass imaging? [SEP] gadofosveset-enhanced mr angiography of carotid arteries: does steady-state imaging improve accuracy of first-pass imaging? comparison with selective digital subtraction angiography. to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of gadofosveset-enhanced magnetic resonance (mr) angiography in the assessment of carotid artery stenosis, with digital subtraction angiography (dsa) as the reference standard, and to determine the value of reading first-pass, steady-state, and "combined" (first-pass plus steady-state) mr angiograms. mr angiography and dsa were performed in 84 patients (56 men, 28 women; age range, 61-76 years) with carotid artery stenosis at doppler ultrasonography. three readers reviewed the first-pass, steady-state, and combined mr data sets, and one independent observer evaluated the dsa images to assess stenosis degree, plaque morphology and ulceration, stenosis length, and tandem lesions. for grading stenosis, sensitivity, specificity, ppv, and npv were, respectively, 90%, 92%, 91%, and 91% for first-pass imaging; 95% each for steady-state imaging; and 96%, 99%, 99%, and 97% for combined imaging. for evaluation of plaque morphology, respective values were 84%, 86%, 88%, and 82% for first-pass imaging; 98%, 97%, 98%, and 97% for steady-state imaging; and 98%, 100%, 100%, and 97% for combined imaging. differences between the first-pass, steady-state, and combined image readings for assessment of stenosis degree and plaque morphology were significant (p < .001). gadofosveset-enhanced mr angiography is a promising technique for imaging carotid artery stenosis. steady-state image reading is superior to first-pass image reading, but the combined reading protocol is more accurate.
Sternal skin conductance: a reasonable surrogate for hot flash measurement? [SEP] sternal skin conductance: a reasonable surrogate for hot flash measurement? this study aims to examine the accuracy of a new sternal skin conductance (ssc) device in measuring hot flashes and to assess the acceptability of the device by women. three small descriptive pilot studies were performed using two sequential prototypes of the ssc device developed by an engineering device company in the midwest. during the study period, women recorded hot flashes in a prospective hot flash diary and answered questions about the acceptability of wearing the ssc device. the first prototype was not able to collect any analyzable skin conductance data owing to various malfunction issues, including poor conductance and battery failure. however, 16 women wore the device for 5 weeks and reported that wearing the device was acceptable, although 31% stated that it interfered with daily activities. hot flash data from the second prototype revealed a 24% concordance rate between self-reported and device-recorded hot flashes. findings from these studies support discordance between device-recorded and self-reported hot flashes. in addition, the studies reveal further limitations of ssc monitoring, including difficulties with data collection and lack of consistency in interpretation. based on these results and other recent trials identifying issues with ssc methodology, it is time to find a better physiologic surrogate measure for hot flashes.
Elephant trunk in a small-calibre true lumen for chronic aortic dissection: cause of haemolytic anaemia? [SEP] 
Does partial expander deflation exacerbate the adverse effects of radiotherapy in two-stage breast reconstruction? [SEP] does partial expander deflation exacerbate the adverse effects of radiotherapy in two-stage breast reconstruction? the optimum protocol for expander volume adjustment with respect to the timing and application of radiotherapy remains controversial. eighteen new zealand rabbits were divided into three groups. metallic port integrated anatomic breast expanders of 250 cc were implanted on the back of each animal and controlled expansion was performed. group i underwent radiotherapy with full expanders while in group ii, expanders were partially deflated immediately prior to radiotherapy. control group did not receive radiotherapy.the changes in blood flow at different volume adjustments were investigated in group ii by laser doppler flowmetry. variations in the histopathologic properties of the irradiated tissues including the skin, capsule and the pocket floor, were compared in the biopsy specimens taken from different locations in each group. a significant increase in skin blood flow was detected in group ii with partial expander deflation. overall, histopathologic exam revealed aggravated findings of chronic radiodermatitis (epidermal atrophy, dermal inflammation and fibrosis, neovascularisation and vascular changes as well as increased capsule thickness) especially around the lower expander pole, in group ii. expander deflation immediately prior to radiotherapy, may augment the adverse effects, especially in the lower expander pole, possibly via enhanced radiosensitization due to a relative increase in the blood flow and tissue oxygenation.
Should temperature be monitorized during kidney allograft preservation? [SEP] static cold storage (scs) and hypothermic machine perfusion (hmp) are currently standard methods for renal grafts clinical preservation. viability assessment during preservation is imperative to avoid unnecessary discard of marginal organs maximizing graft outcomes in kidney transplantation. [should temperature be monitorized during kidney allograft preservation?]. it is generally considered that kidney grafts should be preserved at 4 degrees c during cold storage. temperature was monitored using the thermobouton probe during preservation of pig kidneys, in the same conditions used with human grafts. we then monitored the temperature during the conservation of actual human kidney grafts harvested at our institution from august 2007 to may 2008. the objective of this study was to determine if renal ipc has a beneficial effect in a large animal model of warm i/r and hypothermic preservation injury, which occurs with renal allografting. identification of kidneys subjected to preretrieval warm ischemic injury by simultaneous monitoring of glomerular filtration and perfusate flow during hypothermic perfusion preservation. historically, ex vivo physiological evaluation of cadaveric renal allografts has been limited to assessing perfusate flow (pf) during hypothermic perfusion preservation (hpp). the present work was performed to standardize the isolated hypothermic perfusion of rat kidneys, using the clearing of blood as a reference point.
Can p53 alterations be used to predict tumour response to pre-operative chemo-radiotherapy in locally advanced rectal cancer? [SEP] can p53 alterations be used to predict tumour response to pre-operative chemo-radiotherapy in locally advanced rectal cancer? to examine whether p53 tumour suppressor gene alterations can be used to predict tumour response to pre-operative chemo-radiation in locally advanced rectal cancer in terms of reduction in tumour size and local failure. p53 alterations were studied in pre-treatment biopsy specimens of rectal carcinomas from 48 patients by immunohistochemistry (ihc) and polymerase chain reaction/single strand conformation polymorphism (pcr-sscp) gene mutation analysis. pre-operative pelvic radiotherapy was delivered with four fields, 45 gy to the icru point in 25 fractions over 5 weeks. total meso-rectal excision was planned 4 to 6 weeks from completion of pre-operative treatment. response to therapy was assessed by macroscopic measurement of the surgical specimen by a pathologist who was unaware of the pre-treatment tumour size or of the p53 status. ihc evidence of p53 protein accumulation was found in 40% of tumours, p53 gene mutation in 35% and p53 alteration (either or both changes) in 46%. the average reduction in tumour size was 53% in the group with 'wild-type' p53 (ihc-/sscp-) and 63% in the group with altered p53 (either ihc+ or sscp+; p=0.18). no significant differences in tumour size reduction or local failure were observed in the groups with p53 overexpression or p53 mutation compared with normal. p53 alteration detected by ihc or sscp analysis is not a clinically useful predictor of local response to pre-operative adjuvant therapy in advanced rectal carcinoma.
Is pelvic pain associated with defecatory symptoms in women with pelvic organ prolapse? [SEP] the most significant gynaecological association is with uterine/pelvic organ prolapse and some types of vaginal prolapse. less dramatic, chronic, sometimes cyclical symptoms of voiding and defecatory dysfunction, as well as pelvic pain, have also been recorded in publications. pelvic floor disorders including pelvic organ prolapse (pop), urinary dysfunction, defecatory dysfunction, and complications after pelvic floor surgery are relatively common in the female population. myofascial pelvic pain is a chronic and debilitating condition, sometimes associated with pelvic floor disorders (pfd) such as urinary incontinence, defecatory dysfunction or pelvic organ prolapse. associations between classification and presenting symptom (asymptomatic, pain, bleeding, voiding, or defecatory dysfunction, infection, prolapse), treatment type, and outcome were evaluated with chi-squared test, student's t-test, and univariate logistic regression. 001) related to prolapse, defecatory dysfunction, and urinary symptoms. is pelvic pain associated with defecatory symptoms in women with pelvic organ prolapse? to investigate the significance of pelvic pain and its association with defecatory symptoms in women with pelvic organ prolapse (pop). in women with pop, defecatory symptoms are significantly more common in women with pelvic pain including straining with bowel movement (or 2.4, 95% ci 1.3, 4.6), sense of incomplete emptying (or 4.4, 95% ci 2.3, 8.2), pain with bowel movement (or 5.3, 95% ci 1.2, 23.0) and splinting with bowel movement (or 3.8, 95% ci 2.0, 7.5). in women with pop, the symptom of pelvic pain is associated with the presence of defecatory symptoms.
Does ibuprofen increase perioperative blood loss during hip arthroplasty? [SEP] does ibuprofen increase perioperative blood loss during hip arthroplasty? to determine whether prior exposure of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs increases perioperative blood loss associated with major orthopaedic surgery. fifty patients scheduled for total hip replacement were allocated to two groups (double blind, randomized manner). all patients were pretreated for 2 weeks before surgery: group 1 with placebo drug, group 2 with ibuprofen. all patients were injected intrathecally with bupivacaine 20mg plus morphine 0.1 mg, in a total volume of 4 ml, to provide surgical anaesthesia. the presence of severe adverse effects caused eight patients in the ibuprofen group and six in the placebo group to terminate their participation in the trial. the perioperative blood loss increased by 45% in the ibuprofen group compared with placebo. the total (+/-sd) blood loss in the ibuprofen group was 1161 (+/-472) ml versus 796 (+/-337) ml in the placebo group. pretreatment with ibuprofen before elective total hip surgery increases the perioperative blood loss significantly. early discontinuation of non-selective non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs is advised.
Laparoscopic-assisted ileocolic resections in patients with Crohn's disease: are abscesses, phlegmons, or recurrent disease contraindications? [SEP] clinical remission of crohn's disease and closure of a rectovaginal fistula after autologous non-myeloablative hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. crohn's disease is a chronic, heterogeneous, recurrent and remitting inflammatory bowel disease that can affect any part of the digestive system. obstructions, strictures and intestinal fistulas are complications that require repeat surgery in most patients. a 31-year-old brazilian patient underwent several unsuccessful perianal surgeries for a complex rectovaginal fistula during her twelve years with active crohn's disease. consequently, rectal amputation and permanent colostomy implantation were recommended but refused by the patient. the procedure provided progressive improvement not only with apparent cure of the crohn's disease but with no manifestation of the rectovaginal fistula four years after the transplantation. crohn’s disease is a chronic inflammatory condition of the digestive system with no cure that often leads to repeated surgeries for complications like strictures and difficult-to-manage fistulas, especially in the rectovaginal area. we report the case of a 31-year-old brazilian woman with a complex rectovaginal fistula due to active crohn’s disease for twelve years. four years post-transplantation, she has no active crohn’s disease, no passage of gas or feces through the vagina, and normal bowel function. this case suggests that hematopoietic stem cell transplantation can be a successful treatment for complex rectovaginal fistulas in crohn’s disease patients who decline radical surgery, with sustained improvement observed four years post-transplantation.
Has the use of complementary and alternative medicine therapies by U.S. adults with chronic disease-related functional limitations changed from 2002 to 2007? [SEP] has the use of complementary and alternative medicine therapies by u.s. adults with chronic disease-related functional limitations changed from 2002 to 2007? this study examined changes in the use of complementary and alternative medicine (cam) therapies by u.s. adults aged 18 years or older with chronic disease-related functional limitations between 2002 and 2007. the study was conducted in the united states. the study comprised adults aged 18 years or older with chronic disease-related functional limitations. data were obtained from the 2002 and 2007 u.s. national health interview survey to compare the use of 22 cam therapies (n=9313 and n=7014, respectively). the unadjusted and age-standardized prevalence of overall cam use (22 therapies comparable between both survey years) was higher in 2007 than in 2002 (30.6% versus 26.9%, p<0.001 and 34.4% versus 30.6%, p<0.001, respectively). adults with functional limitations that included changing and maintaining body position experienced a significant increase in cam use between 2002 and 2007 (31.1%-35.0%, p<0.01). the use of deep breathing exercises was the most prevalent cam therapy in both 2002 and 2007 and increased significantly during this period (from 17.9% to 19.9%, p<0.05). the use of meditation, massage, and yoga also increased significantly from 2002 and 2007 (11.0%-13.5%, p<0.01; 7.0%-10.9%, p<0.0001; and 5.1% to 6.6%, p<0.05, respectively), while the use of the atkins diet decreased (2.2%- 1.4%, p<0.01). among u.s. adults with chronic disease-related functional limitations, the overall increase in cam use from 2002 to 2007 was significant, particularly among those with changing and maintaining body position limitations.
Is extended aortic replacement in acute type A dissection justifiable? [SEP] acute aortic dissection type a in younger patients (< 60 years old) - does full arch replacement provide benefits compared to limited approach? is limited aortic resection more justified in elderly patients with type a acute aortic dissection?-insights from single center experience. is extended arch replacement justified for acute type a aortic dissection? in acute type a aortic dissection, the extension of repair to downstream aorta has been controversially discussed. is extended aortic replacement in acute type a dissection justifiable? extended total arch replacement for acute type a aortic dissection: experience with seventy patients. extended total arch replacement for acute type a aortic dissection could be justified in properly selected patients. extended aortic replacement for acute type a dissection with the tear in the descending aorta. total replacement of the ascending aorta and aortic arch accompanied by resection of an intimal tear distal to the left subclavian artery seems to be justified in selected patients with acute type a dissection with the tear in the descending thoracic aorta. acute type a dissecting aortic aneurysm requiring emergency arch replacement.
Is intensive monitoring during the first transfusion in pediatric patients necessary? [SEP] for an effective transfusion system and in order to reduce variability of transfusion practice by implementing evidence-based transfusion guidelines it is necessary to study and monitor blood management strategies. coagulopathy and transfusion therapy in pediatric liver transplantation. moreover, strategies to optimize blood transfusion and anticoagulation must be tested specifically in pediatric patients. is intensive monitoring during the first transfusion in pediatric patients necessary? some pediatric patients, typically those that are very young or felt to be especially sick are temporarily admitted to the intensive care unit (icu) for observation during their first transfusion. the aim of this project was to determine if heightened observation such as temporary icu admissions for the first transfusion are warranted. not the first) transfusion in six patients. the practice of intensive observation for the first transfusion in pediatric patients is probably unnecessary. variations in transfusion practice in neonatal intensive care. to compare the transfusion practices between two neonatal intensive care units (nicus) to assess the impact of local practice styles on the timing, number, and total volume of packed red cell transfusions in very low birth weight infants.
Effects of exercise training on heart rate and QT interval in healthy young individuals: are there gender differences? [SEP] effects of exercise training on heart rate and qt interval in healthy young individuals: are there gender differences? the aim of the present study was to assess the effects of exercise training on heart rate, qt interval, and on the relation between ventricular repolarization and heart rate in men and women. trained individuals showed a lower heart rate and a higher heart rate variability than sedentary subjects, independent of the gender difference in basal heart rate. mean 24 h qtc was similar in trained and non-trained men, while a significant difference was observed between trained and non-trained women. exercise training reduced the qt/rr slope in both genders. this effect on the qt/rr relation was more marked in women; in fact, the gender difference in the ventricular repolarization duration at low heart rate observed in sedentary subjects was no longer present among trained individuals. the results of this study suggest that the cardiovascular response to exercise training may be different in men and women. effects of age and gender on the qt response to exercise. although gender differences in resting corrected qt intervals have been well documented, the effects of age and exercise on gender differences in qt have not been well characterized. gender differences in qt disappear at faster hrs, whereas age differences are smaller but are present throughout exercise, with no significant age-gender interaction.
Is coeliac disease screening in risk groups justified? [SEP] the risk to develop diabetes seems to be the same in celiac patients and in healthy subjects thus screening of diabetes-related autoantibodies is not justified in celiac patients. is coeliac disease screening in risk groups justified? the benefits of serologic screening for coeliac disease in asymptomatic individuals are debatable. to investigate dietary compliance, quality of life and bone mineral density after long-term treatment in coeliac disease patients found by screening in risk groups. active screening in coeliac disease risk groups seems to be reasonable rather than harmful. autoimmune cholestatic liver disease in people with coeliac disease: a population-based study of their association. the association with primary biliary cirrhosis was weaker than in some reports and it is difficult on the basis of this study to justify screening patients with coeliac disease for either primary biliary cirrhosis or primary sclerosing cholangitis. [screening gor celiac disease can be justified in high-risk groups]. despite this, gliadin antibodies of type iga are still the best marker for coeliac disease in children under two years of age. in cohorts with autoimmune disease or chromosomal aberrations or in relatives to anyone with coeliac disease.
Analysis of the epidemiological pattern of Shigellosis in Barcelona between 1988 and 2012: Is it an emerging sexually transmitted infection? [SEP] 
A patient with myelomeningocele: is untethering necessary prior to scoliosis correction? [SEP] a patient with myelomeningocele: is untethering necessary prior to scoliosis correction? tethering of the spinal cord is thought to increase the chance of neurological injury when scoliosis correction is undertaken. all patients with myelomeningocele (mm) are radiographically tethered, and untethering procedures carry significant morbidity risks including worsening neurological function and wound complications. no guidelines exist as regards untethering in patients with mm prior to scoliosis correction surgery. the authors' aim in this study was to evaluate their experience in patients with mm who were not untethered before scoliosis correction. seventeen patients with mm were retrospectively identified and 1) had no evidence of a clinically symptomatic tethered cord, 2) had undergone spinal fusion for scoliosis correction, and 3) had not been untethered for at least 1 year prior to surgery. the minimum follow-up after fusion was 2 years. postoperatively, no patient experienced a new cranial nerve palsy, shunt malfunction, change in urological function, or upper extremity weakness/sensory loss. one patient had transient lower extremity weakness, which returned to baseline within 1 month of surgery. the study results suggested that spinal cord untethering may be unnecessary in patients with mm who are undergoing scoliosis corrective surgery and do not present with clinical symptoms of a tethered cord, even though tethering is radiographically demonstrated.
Is aerobic workload positively related to ambulatory blood pressure? [SEP] associations between occupational relative aerobic workload and resting blood pressure among different age groups: a cross-sectional analysis in the dphacto study. high levels of occupational physical activity (opa) increase heart rate, blood pressure (bp) and the risk of hypertension. this study investigates the association of relative aerobic workload (raw) with resting bp and examines if this relation is moderated by age. is aerobic workload positively related to ambulatory blood pressure? the increased risk may be due to a high relative aerobic workload, possibly leading to increased blood pressure. however, studies investigating the relation between relative aerobic workload and ambulatory blood pressure (abp) are lacking. the aim was to explore the relationship between objectively measured relative aerobic workload and abp. a fully adjusted mixed model of measurements throughout the day showed significant positive relations (p < 0.001): a 1% increase in mean relative aerobic workload was associated with an increase of 0.42 ± 0.05 mmhg (95% ci 0.32-0.52 mmhg) in systolic abp and 0.30 ± 0.04 mmhg (95% ci 0.22-0.38 mmhg) in diastolic abp. correlations between relative aerobic workload and abp were significant. because workers may have an elevated relative aerobic workload for several hours each working day, this relationship may elucidate a mechanism behind the increased risk for cardiovascular disease among workers exposed to high levels of occupational physical activity.
PREVALENCE OF THE STREPTOCOCUS AGALACTIAE IN THE PREGNANT WOMAN FROM THE AUTONOMIC CITY OF MELILLA: IS CULTURE A DETERMINANT FACTOR? [SEP] [prevalence of the streptococus agalactiae in the pregnant woman from the autonomic city of melilla: is culture a determinant factor?]. the neonatal infection by streptococcus group b is one of the main causes of neonatal morbi-mortality rate. for this reason a screening is made to each pregnant woman in order to detect its presence, and if it was the case, to apply an antibiotic treatment during labour. the aim of this study was to know the prevalence of this streptococcus in the pregnant women from melilla, as well as the differences according to culture and age. a descriptive cross-sectional study located in the hospital comarcal from melilla. the sample is taken from 280 women: 194 are from muslim culture (69.3%), 68 are from christian culture (24.3%) and 18 women from unknown cultures (6.4%). also it is known that 78 of them are 25 years old or less (27.85%), 158 are between 26 and 34 years old (56.42%) and 44 are 35 years old or more (15.71%). the prevalence of vagino-rectal colonization by streptococcus group b in the pregnant women from melilla is within the national estimated figures, however it is different if they are from muslim or christian culture, being higher in the muslim population. on one hand both prevalences are within the national statistics, and on the other hand it is observed that there is not any difference according to age.
Is fluoroscopy essential for retrieval of lower ureteric stones? [SEP] is fluoroscopy essential for retrieval of lower ureteric stones? the aim of this study was to assess the efficacy of ureteroscopy for lower ureteric stones without the use of fluoroscopy. between june 2001 and january 2005, a total of 110 patients with a mean age of 33.5 years (range 12-65) suffering from of lower ureteral calculi (below the upper margin of the sacroiliac joint) prospectively underwent ureteroscopic removal. whenever required, the ureteric meatus was dilated with a ureteric balloon under direct vision. double-j stent placement was done with the aid of ureteroscopy. a fluoroscope was kept standby. the patients had a postoperative x-ray of the kidney-ureter-bladder region to document the stone clearance. complete clearance without the use of fluoroscopy was achieved in 99 patients (94.2%). fluoroscopy was required in 6 patients (4%) for calcified stricture (n = 1), duplex system (n = 1), narrow and tortuous meatus causing difficulty in passing the 5-fr balloon dilator (n = 3), and confirmation of spontaneous passage of the stone (n = 1). to uphold the notion for radiation exposure to be as low as reasonably achievable, ureteroscopic stone retrieval can safely be done without the use of fluoroscopy in a significant number of patients.
Does the sequence of clamp application during open abdominal aortic aneurysm surgery influence distal embolisation? [SEP] does the sequence of clamp application during open abdominal aortic aneurysm surgery influence distal embolisation? embolisation of atherosclerotic debris during abdominal aortic aneurysm (aaa) repair is responsible for significant peri-operative morbidity. reports have suggested that preferential clamping of the distal vessel(s) before the proximal aorta may decrease the number of emboli passing distally and hence reduce complications. forty patients undergoing aaa repair were randomised to have either first clamping of the proximal aorta or the iliac vessels. emboli passing through the superficial femoral arteries were detected with a transcranial doppler ultrasound system. there was no difference between the two groups in the number of emboli detected (p=0.49) and no significant correlation between number of emboli and dissection time (r=0.0008). however, there was a significantly higher number of emboli in the patient sub-group that were current smokers (p=0.034). there appears to be no difference in the numbers of emboli detected when the first vascular clamp is applied to the proximal aorta or iliacs.
Are lower fasting plasma glucose levels at diagnosis of type 2 diabetes associated with improved outcomes? [SEP] beyond insulin therapy: comparing relative benefits of adding sglt2 versus dpp4 inhibitors in poorly controlled type 2 diabetic patients: a systematic review and meta-analysis. reductions were observed in hba1c (md -0.29%; p = 0.07), fasting plasma glucose (md -21.27 mg/dl; p = 0.09), mean amplitude of glycaemic excursions (md -1.85 mg/dl; p = 0.87), insulin dose (md -2.0; p = 0.10), and triglycerides (md -23.43 mg/dl; p = 0.25) with sglt2i and insulin, but were not statistically significant. observational evidence suggested lower cardiovascular mortality with sglt2i plus insulin therapy (or 0.54; p < 0.00001). subgroup analyses demonstrated greater reductions in hba1c and fasting plasma glucose among patients receiving premixed insulin, particularly in studies with longer treatment duration (24 weeks), longer diabetes duration (>13 years), and baseline hba1c≥ 8%. among insulin-treated patients with inadequately controlled t2dm, sglt2i and dpp4i provide comparable glycaemic control; however, sglt2i confer additional cardiometabolic benefits, particularly weight reduction and improved systolic blood pressure. sustained glycemic control and improved well-being on early induction of triple drug therapy in newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes mellitus patients with hba1c ≥9%: a prospective, cross-sectional, and observational study. randomized controlled trials and real-world studies suggest that combination therapy with sodium-glucose transport protein 2 inhibitors (sglt2is) and glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (glp-1ras) is associated with improvement in fasting plasma glucose (fpg), glycated hemoglobin (hba1c), systolic blood pressure (sbp), body mass index (bmi), and total cholesterol levels. metabolic outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus after metabolic management center. glycosylated hemoglobin and low density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) level in t2dm patients after 1 year management were lower than their baseline level (glycosylated hemoglobin 7.74 ± 1.94% vs 8.63 ± 2.26%, p < .001; ldl-c 1.81 ± 0.73mmol/l vs 2.18 ± 1.49mmol/l, p < .001). fasting plasma glucose control rate in new diagnosis group was higher than that of the middle and long course groups (71.43% vs 52.38%, 42.44%, p = .002).
Cerebromediastinal tuberculosis in a child with a probable Say-Barber-Miller syndrome: a causative link? [SEP] 
Are virtual planning and guided surgery for head and neck reconstruction economically viable? [SEP] are virtual planning and guided surgery for head and neck reconstruction economically viable? virtual planning and guided surgery with or without prebent or milled plates are becoming more and more common for mandibular reconstruction with fibular free flaps (fffs). although this excellent surgical option is being used more widely, the question of the additional cost of planning and cutting-guide production has to be discussed. our study was designed to determine whether using virtual planning and guided surgery resulted in time saved during surgery and whether this time gain resulted in self-funding of such planning through the time saved. all consecutive cases of fff surgery were evaluated during a 2-year period. the time for fibula molding, plate adaptation, and insetting was recorded. during the defined period, we performed 20 mandibular reconstructions using fffs, 9 with virtual planning and guided surgery and 11 freehand cases. one minute of operative time was calculated to cost us $47.50. multiplying this number by the time saved, we found that the additional cost of virtual planning was reduced from us $5,098 to us $1,231.50 with a prebent plate and from us $6,980 to us $3,113.50 for a milled plate. even in capped health care systems, virtual planning and guided surgery including prebent or milled plates are financially viable.
Do overweight children necessarily make overweight adults? [SEP] childhood obesity rates continue to increase, especially for black americans. polygenic prediction of body mass index and obesity through the life course and across ancestries. in the alspac study, children with higher pgss showed accelerated bmi gain from age 2.5 years to adolescence, with earlier adiposity rebound. higher pgss were associated with greater adult weight gain. large-bodied adolescents refers to young people (usually aged 10-19 years) whose body size falls within the overweight or obese range as defined by the world health organisation's growth reference, based on age- and sex-specific body mass index (bmi) percentiles. editorial: grappling with the relationships of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and obesity. are empirically derived adolescent overweight/obesity phenotypes differentially associated with polycystic ovary syndrome (pcos) in young adulthood? self-reported pcos diagnosis risk in young adulthood varied by empirically derived adolescent overweight/obesity phenotypes, with the highest risk observed among those in the 'mothers with obesity' and 'early puberty' phenotypes. overweight and obesity during puberty are postulated to promote the development of pcos. much of the prior literature in this area is cross-sectional and defines weight status based solely on bmi, yet emerging research suggests that not all people with overweight/obesity have the same risk for chronic health conditions, including pcos.
Biliary atresia: should all patients undergo a portoenterostomy? [SEP] clinical outcomes and influencing factors of reoperation in biliary atresia. to investigate the clinical characteristics and prognosis of patients with biliary atresia (ba) who undergo reoperation after initial kasai portoenterostomy, and to evaluate the feasibility and clinical value of the reoperation. we performed a retrospective analysis of a total of five cases of biliary atresia performed laparoscopically over the last 5 years at our institution. comparative outcomes of open and laparoscopic kasai portoenterostomy for biliary atresia patients progressing to liver transplantation: a real-world cohort study. we compared the long-term outcomes of open (okpe) versus laparoscopic kasai portoenterostomy (lkpe) for children with biliary atresia (ba) who ultimately progressed to liver transplantation (lt). biliary atresia (ba) is a progressive, fibro-obliterative cholangiopathy of infancy that inevitably leads to cirrhosis and liver failure without intervention. biliary atresia (ba) is a progressive, fibro-inflammatory cholangiopathy of infants with kasai portoenterostomy (kpe) as the first-line surgical treatment. evaluating the role of kasai portoenterostomy in biliary atresia older than 90 days. biliary atresia (ba) patients presenting after 90 days of age face contentious treatment decisions between kasai portoenterostomy and direct liver transplantation. decrease of post-portoenterostomy liver fibrosis in a nationally centralized cohort of biliary atresia patients.
Does a history of unintended pregnancy lessen the likelihood of desire for sterilization reversal? [SEP] does a history of unintended pregnancy lessen the likelihood of desire for sterilization reversal? unintended pregnancy has been significantly associated with subsequent female sterilization. whether women who are sterilized after experiencing an unintended pregnancy are less likely to express desire for sterilization reversal is unknown. this study used national, cross-sectional data collected by the 2006-2010 national survey of family growth. the study sample included women ages 15-44 who were surgically sterile from a tubal sterilization at the time of interview. multivariable logistic regression was used to examine the relationship between a history of unintended pregnancy and desire for sterilization reversal while controlling for potential confounders. in this nationally representative sample of 1,418 women who were sterile from a tubal sterilization, 78% had a history of at least one unintended pregnancy and 28% expressed a desire to have their sterilization reversed. in unadjusted analysis, having a prior unintended pregnancy was associated with higher odds of expressing desire for sterilization reversal (odds ratio [or]: 1.80; 95% confidence interval [ci]: 1.15-2.79). in adjusted analysis controlling for sociodemographic factors, unintended pregnancy was no longer significantly associated with desire for reversal (or: 1.46; 95% ci: 0.91-2.34). among women who had undergone tubal sterilization, a prior history of unintended pregnancy did not decrease desire for sterilization reversal.
Does early discharge with nurse home visits affect adequacy of newborn metabolic screening? [SEP] does early discharge with nurse home visits affect adequacy of newborn metabolic screening? to examine the impact of early discharge on newborn metabolic screening. metabolic screening results were obtained from the alabama state lab for all infants born at our hospital between 8/1/97, and 1/31/99, and were matched with an existing database of early discharge infants. an early newborn discharge was defined as a discharge between 24 and 47 hours of age. metabolic screening tests included phenylketonuria (pku), hypothyroidism, and congenital adrenal hyperplasia (cah). early discharge and traditional stay infants were compared to determine the percentage of newborns screened and the timing of the first adequate specimen. at least one filter paper test (pku, hypothyroidism, and cah) was collected on 99.2% of early discharge infants and 96.0% of traditional stay infants (p<.0001). early discharge infants had a higher rate of initial filter paper specimens being inadequate (22.9%) compared with traditional stay infants (14.3%, p<.0001) but had a higher rate of repeat specimens when the initial specimen was inadequate (85.0% early discharge vs 75.3% traditional stay, p=.002). the early discharge group was more likely to have an adequate specimen within the first 9 days of life (1001, 98.8% early discharge vs 2016, 96.7% traditional stay, p=.0005). in this well established early discharge program with nurse home visits, newborn metabolic screening is not compromised by early discharge.
Are stroke patients' reports of home blood pressure readings reliable? [SEP] home blood pressure measurement self-reporting in real-life practices using the hy-result app: self-monitoring and digital pathway. little real-life information is available on the clinical characteristics of information and communication technologies (icts) users, particularly in the context of hypertension and home blood pressure measurement (hbpm). this retrospective observational study describes hbpm practices obtained through the hy-result we analyzed 19,176 hbpm reports (sequence of 1 to 7 days of measurements; 3 in the morning, 3 in the evening) collected in real life circumstances from two groups of users: primary care (prim) and hypertension center (hosp). are stroke patients' reports of home blood pressure readings reliable? home blood pressure (bp) monitoring is gaining increasing popularity among patients and may be useful in hypertension management. little is known about the reliability of stroke patients' records of home bp monitoring. to assess the reliability of home bp recording in hypertensive patients who had suffered a recent stroke or transient ischaemic attack. thirty-nine stroke patients (mean age 73 years) randomized to the intervention arm of a trial of home bp monitoring were included. this group of elderly stroke patients were able to record their bps reliably at home. since bp readings in a gp surgery are often a poor indication of true bp, gps might consider using hypertensive patients' records of home bp monitoring to help guide treatment decisions.
Does increasing blood pH stimulate protein synthesis in dialysis patients? [SEP] however, in patients on dialysis, serum carnitine levels progressively fall due to restricted dietary intake and deprivation of endogenous synthesis in the kidney. therefore, the dialysis procedure is a major cause of carnitine deficiency in patients undergoing hemodialysis. hemodialysis-induced changes in the blood composition affect function of the endothelium. we evaluated how hemodialysis-induced changes in blood affect the function of endothelial cells in in vitro culture. serum samples were collected from 42 uremic patients treated with hemodialysis, one before the start of dialysis and the other one at the end of session. additionally, the effect of the serum obtained before and after dialysis on the function of endothelial cells in in vitro culture was studied. hemodialysis caused increase of monocyte chemoattractant protein (mcp)-1 (+17%), hepatocyte growth factor (+91%), and pentraxin-3 (+30%) concentration in serum. serum obtained after hemodialysis stimulated proliferation of endothelial cells (+10%) and synthesis of mcp-1(+11%) in these cells. hyperparathyroidism and hyperphosphatemia contribute to the inflammatory effects in chronic hemodialysis (hd) patients. higher phosphate and ipth levels and longer dialysis duration may increase th17 cell differentiation, especially in the nondiabetic chronic hd patients.
Can T-cell deficiency affect spatial learning ability following toluene exposure? [SEP] can t-cell deficiency affect spatial learning ability following toluene exposure? the present studywas designed to investigate the possible role of t cells in spatial learning ability in mouse after toluene exposure. eight-week-old male wild-type (wt) and nude mice of balb/c strain were exposed to toluene (0, 9 and 90 ppm) in a nose-only exposure chamber for 30 min per day for 3 consecutive days and then once per week for 4 weeks. twenty-four hours after the completion of exposure, we examined the spatial learning ability in each mouse using the morris water maze apparatus. in the acquisition phase, a longer escape latency was observed in nude mice exposed to 90 ppm toluene on days 3 and 4 when compared with corresponding wt mice. however, the effect of toluene on the escape latency was not significant in nude mice. in the probe trial, wt mice exposed to 90 ppm toluene showed poor retention memory compared with the control group. in the reversal phase, we did not find any significant difference between groups. these results indicate that t-cell deficiency may affect spatial learning performance following toluene exposure.
Is there a relationship between homocysteine and vitiligo? [SEP] 
Do dermatomyositis and polymyositis affect similar thigh muscles? [SEP] reliability of durometry to assess firmness of calcinosis lesions in juvenile and adult dermatomyositis. dermatomyositis (dm) and juvenile dermatomyositis (jdm) are inflammatory myopathies affecting multiple organs, including muscle and skin. do dermatomyositis and polymyositis affect similar thigh muscles? dermatomyositis (dm) and polymyositis (pm) commonly cause weakness of the thigh muscles. however, it is debated whether dm and pm affect similar thigh muscles. muscle oedema on fat-suppressed mri sequences is thought to represent active inflammation. in this study, we aimed to assess which thigh muscle groups are preferentially inflamed in dm and pm, respectively, using short-tau inversion-recovery mri sequences. muscle oedema was more common in dm than in pm except in the posterior thigh muscles. in particular, 68% of patients with dm had involvement of at least one anterior thigh muscle versus 38% of patients with pm (p=0.02). compared with pm, dm affects more thigh muscles, except those of the posterior compartment, which are equally involved in both disorders.
Juvenile ankylosing spondylitis--is it the same disease as adult ankylosing spondylitis? [SEP] juvenile-onset ankylosing spondylitis is associated with worse functional outcomes than adult-onset ankylosing spondylitis. to compare functional outcome of patients with juvenile-onset ankylosing spondylitis (joas; defined as as with symptom onset before 16 years of age) with that of patients with adult-onset as (aoas) and to identify variables associated with a poor functional outcome of joas. a cross-sectional study was performed of 326 joas patients who participated in a postal survey conducted by the spondylitis association of america. simple and multiple logistic regression analyses were performed to identify differences with respect to clinical features, demographic features, and functional outcome (defined by the bath ankylosing spondylitis functional index [basfi]) between the 2 groups. juvenile ankylosing spondylitis--is it the same disease as adult ankylosing spondylitis? juvenile and adult forms of ankylosing spondylitis (as) have been shown to have different clinical presentation and outcome in caucasians. patients with onset before 17 years of age were classified as having juvenile as (jas) and the rest with adult as (aas). the latter had higher male preponderance, more frequent onset with peripheral arthritis, and greater involvement of hip and knee joints. in this group of subjects, juvenile as had onset more often with oligoarthritis and enthesitis than with spinal disease. hip and knee joint involvement was more common in jas than aas.
Is Aspiration Thrombectomy Beneficial in Patients Undergoing Primary Percutaneous Coronary Intervention? [SEP] all-cause mortality and the risk of stroke with selective aspiration thrombectomy in patients with st-elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention: a nationwide retrospective cohort study. few data exist on the clinical outcomes of selective aspiration thrombectomy during primary percutaneous coronary intervention (ppci).this was a nationwide retrospective cohort study. for the patients who survived to discharge, the post-discharge 1-year mortality was lower in the aspiration thrombectomy group of patients in whom the procedures were performed by physicians with a high volume of ppci (hazard ratio: 0.47; 95% confidence interval: 0.24-0.94; p = .03).in this nationwide cohort study, selective aspiration thrombectomy at the operation's discretion had a comparable mortality rate compared with pci alone and did not increase the risk of stroke. in the patients treated by physicians with a high volume of ppci, aspiration thrombectomy appeared to have a beneficial effect on post-discharge survival at 1 year. is aspiration thrombectomy beneficial in patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention? role of aspiration and mechanical thrombectomy in patients with acute myocardial infarction undergoing primary angioplasty: an updated meta-analysis of randomized trials. this meta-analysis was designed to update data on clinical outcomes with aspiration thrombectomy or mechanical thrombectomy before primary percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) compared with conventional primary pci alone. aspiration thrombectomy vs. conventional primary pci (18 trials, n=3,936): major adverse cardiac events (mace) (risk ratio [rr]: 0.76; 95% confidence interval [ci]: 0.63 to 0.92; p = 0.006) and all-cause mortality (rr: 0.71; 95% ci: 0.51 to 0.99; p = 0.049) were significantly reduced with aspiration thrombectomy. thrombus aspiration in primary percutaneous coronary intervention in high-risk patients with st-elevation myocardial infarction: a real-world registry. catheter thrombus aspiration in primary pci was beneficial in randomized clinical trials.
Can static foot posture measurements predict regional plantar surface area? [SEP] can static foot posture measurements predict regional plantar surface area? the intent of this study was to determine if the use of a single or combination of static foot posture measurements can be used to predict rearfoot, midfoot, and forefoot plantar surface area in individuals with pronated or normal foot types. dynamic plantar contact area was collected during walking with a pressure sensor platform. a two variable model was found to describe the relationship between the foot measurements and forefoot plantar contact area (r(2)=0.79, p<0.0001). a four variable model was found to describe the relationship between the foot measurements and midfoot plantar contact area (r(2)=0.85, p<0.0001) in those individuals with a 1.26cm or greater change in midfoot width. the results indicate that clinicians can use a combination of simple, reliable and time efficient foot measures to explain 79% and 85% of the plantar surface area in the forefoot and midfoot, respectively. [plantar pressure platform as clinical assesment tool in the analysis of foot posture with the foot posture index]. the foot posture index is a static measurement that splits up the foot posture into neutral, pronatus and supinatus. for this, the objective of this research is to check the relationship between the foot posture and plantar pressure standard. 288 feet were analysed with regard to the correlation between point 5 of fpi (medial arch height) and the plantar surface total area (p = 0.038): lower arch height and supinated foot are related to the maximum pressure points with p = 0.029.
Can dentists recognize manipulated digital radiographs? [SEP] can dentists recognize manipulated digital radiographs? to determine the ability of dentists to recognize digitally manipulated radiographs. a poster was presented at the annual meeting of the german society for periodontology displaying the intra-oral radiographs of 12 different patients. half of the radiographs were subjected to digital manipulation to add or remove specific features. dentists were asked to identify these radiographs by means of a questionnaire. thirty-nine dentists submitted usable questionnaires. none of the dentists detected all the six manipulated radiographs; three dentists had five correct, but there were five with only one. an authentic radiograph scored highest as a manipulation. image manipulations which alter the diagnostic content of a radiograph are unlikely to be detected by dentists. digital radiography requires additional measures for data protection.
Is delayed gastric emptying following pancreaticoduodenectomy related to pylorus preservation? [SEP] association of pylorus preservation with outcomes of pancreaticoduodenectomy across the united states. pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy (pppd) was developed to improve postoperative gastrointestinal function while maintaining oncologic adequacy. preoperative anxiety state is an independent risk factor for delayed gastric emptying after pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy: a single-center retrospective case-control study. delayed gastric emptying (dge) is one of the prevalent complications following pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy (pppd). impact of antecolic vs transmesocolic reconstruction on delayed gastric emptying following pancreaticoduodenectomy. delayed gastric emptying (dge) is a common complication after pancreaticoduodenectomy. delayed gastric emptying (dge) is a common complication after a pylorus-preserving pancreatoduodenectomy (pppd) and is associated with significant morbidity. delayed gastric emptying is a cause of significant morbidity and prolongs the duration of hospitalization following pancreaticoduodenectomy. improvement of delayed gastric emptying in pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy: results of a prospective, randomized, controlled trial. to determine if an antecolic or a retrocolic duodenojejunostomy during pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy (pppd) was associated with the least incidence of delayed gastric emptying (dge), in a prospective, randomized, controlled trial.
Is Overexpression of Ki-67 a Prognostic Biomarker of Upper Tract Urinary Carcinoma? [SEP] ki-67 as a prognostic marker in upper urinary tract urothelial carcinoma: a systematic review and meta-analysis. we systematically evaluated the prognostic significance of ki-67 on survival outcomes in patients with upper urinary tract urothelial carcinoma (utuc) treated with radical nephroureterectomy (rnu). is overexpression of ki-67 a prognostic biomarker of upper tract urinary carcinoma? the prognostic role of ki-67/mib-1 in upper urinary-tract urothelial carcinomas: a systematic review and meta-analysis. ki-67/mib-1 overexpression shows promise as a prognostic biomarker for utuc patients and requires further investigation. expression of ki-67 and cox-2 in patients with upper urinary tract urothelial carcinoma. to investigate the prognostic value of ki-67, cyclooxygenase-2 (cox-2), e-cadherin, and retinoblastoma protein (prb) in patients with urothelial carcinoma of the upper urinary tract. overexpression of ki-67 (p = .041 and p = .006, respectively) and cox-2 (p = .002 and p = .001, respectively) was associated with the pathologic stage and grade. our results suggest that ki-67 overexpression is an independent predictor of the progression of urothelial carcinoma of the upper urinary tract. ki-67 over-expression is of prognostic value in tcc of the upper urinary tract, while p53, mmp-2 and mmp-9 are of limited value.
Does a delay in transfer to a rehabilitation unit for older people affect outcome after fracture of the proximal femur? [SEP] does a delay in transfer to a rehabilitation unit for older people affect outcome after fracture of the proximal femur? to detemine the relationship between delay in transfer to rehabilitation wards and outcome for patients aged over 75 years with fracture of the proximal femur. an observational study in a district general hospital of all patients admitted to hospital aged over 75 years with fracture of the proximal femur over 3 1/2 years. outcome data collected included the number of patients discharged back to their usual residence and total hospital length of stay related to age, gender, usual residence and delay in transfer to a rehabilitation ward. 58% of 455 patients were transferred to a rehabilitation ward. for those patients who were transferred to a rehabilitation ward only age predicted discharge to a more dependent residence. the relative risk for discharge to a more dependent residence for people aged over 85 years compared to younger people was 1.47 (95% ci 1.15-1.88). delay in transfer to rehabilitation was associated with a longer total hospital length of stay of 0.64 (95% ci 0.23-1.05) days per day of delay in transfer. delay in transfer to a rehabilitation ward was associated with a disproportionate increase in total hospital length of stay for patients aged over 75 with fracture of the proximal femur.
Does the treatment of amblyopia normalise subfoveal choroidal thickness in amblyopic children? [SEP] effect of amblyopia treatment on choroidal thickness in hypermetropic anisometropic amblyopia using swept-source optical coherence tomography. although va in amblyopic eyes was significantly improved after treatment, the choroid thickening of anisometropic amblyopic eyes persisted, and there was no significant change found in the ct after the treatment. does the treatment of amblyopia normalise subfoveal choroidal thickness in amblyopic children? recent studies have found a choroidal thickening in amblyopic eyes and suggested that there might be a relationship between the choroid and amblyopia. the present study aimed to evaluate the effect of a six-month treatment of amblyopia on choroidal thickness in anisometropic hyperopic amblyopic children. the treatment of amblyopia was performed based on the full correction of the refractive error with eyeglasses, a refractive adaptation phase and occlusion by patching the fellow eye. the mean visual acuity of the amblyopic eyes significantly increased from 0.35 ± 0.3 to 0.16 ± 0.2 logmar after the treatment (p < 0.001). the mean initial choroidal thickness was significantly higher in the amblyopic eyes than in the fellow eyes (p = 0.019). the mean choroidal thickness was still higher in the amblyopic eyes than in the fellow eyes after the treatment (p = 0.006). although a six-month treatment of amblyopia increased the visual acuity of the anisometropic hyperopic amblyopic eyes, it could not significantly change choroidal thickness.
A comparison of 500 prefilled textured saline breast implants versus 500 standard textured saline breast implants: is there a difference in deflation rates? [SEP] 
Do foreign bodies migrate through the body towards the heart? [SEP] migration of a broken scalpel into the heart after spine surgery. do foreign bodies migrate through the body towards the heart? fixation of foreign bodies (fb), in the mucosa, can favor its migration, giving origin to the popular saying: 'fb walk to the heart'. from a sample of 3,000 foreign bodies, during 40 years, we analyzed four which had extra-lumen migration. migration started in the esophagus in two, one going to the aorta and the other to the neck area. in the other two, migration started in the pharynx, and the fb moved towards the prevertebral fascia and the other externalized in the submandibular region. the study allows us to determine that fb can move through the body but not towards the heart. on 2d echocardiography, a mobile piece of lead was seen in the right atrium and right ventricle, loosely attached to the free wall of the right ventricule; 3d reconstruction confirmed this suggestion. it had positioned itself in the right pulmonary artery. we suggest that during a period of frequent bending physical activity, the lead must have started its journey by perforating through the free wall of the right ventricle and had then been carried away by the blood flow towards the right pulmonary artery.
Is there a relationship between serum paraoxonase level and epicardial fat tissue thickness? [SEP] 
Chemoradiation instead of surgery to treat mid and low rectal tumors: is it safe? [SEP] chemoradiation instead of surgery to treat mid and low rectal tumors: is it safe? the main treatment for rectal carcinoma is surgery. preoperative chemoradiation (crt) is advocated to reduce local recurrence and improve resection of mid and low tethered rectal tumors. fifty-two patients with mid or low rectal tumors underwent crt (external beam radiation plus 5-fluorouracil plus folinic acid). patients who had low rectal tumors with complete response (cr) were not submitted to surgical treatment. clinical evaluation after crt showed cr in 10 cases (19.2%), all low tumors; incomplete response (>50%) in 21 (40.4%); and no response (<50%) in 19 (36.6%). two patients were not submitted to surgery and are still alive without cancer after 37 and 58 months. seven had local recurrences after crt plus surgery (17.9%). overall survival was negatively affected by lymph node metastases (p =.017) and perineural invasion (p =.026). exclusive crt approach is not safe to treat patients with low infiltrative rectal carcinoma.
Is calibration the cause of variation in liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry testosterone measurement? [SEP] is calibration the cause of variation in liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry testosterone measurement? testosterone measurement by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (lc-ms/ms) is well accepted as the preferred technique for the analysis of testosterone. variation is seen between assays and this may be due to differences in calibration as commercial calibrators for this assay are not readily available. we investigated the effects calibration in routine clinical lc-ms/ms assays. all lc-ms/ms users that were registered with the ukneqas external quality assurance scheme for testosterone were invited to take part in the study. the laboratories were instructed to analyse all samples using there own calibrators and return the results and a method questionnaire for analysis. there was no consensus on supplier of testosterone or matrix for the preparation of calibrators and all were prepared in-house. the variation in results did not improve when the results were corrected with a common calibrator. the variation in results obtained could not be attributed to variations in calibrators. the differences in methodologies between laboratories must be the reason for this variation.
Are complex coronary lesions more frequent in patients with diabetes mellitus? [SEP] diabetic patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) frequently have complex coronary artery disease (cad) and suboptimal outcomes with drug-eluting stents (des). score2-diabetes for predicting coronary artery disease: a cardiac ct study in a diabetic moderate-risk region population. current approaches to estimating the probability of coronary artery disease (cad) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm) often fail to reflect the clinical complexity of the condition, as they tend to oversimplify it by neglecting its progressive nature, variability in glycemic control, and the influence of disease duration. differential clinical outcomes in acs: the amplified risk of diabetes in patients treated with drug-coated balloon angioplasty. diabetic individuals exhibited significantly higher comorbid burden-hypertension, dyslipidemia, and prior coronary interventions. non-st-elevation myocardial infarction (nstemi) predominated among diabetics, and in-stent restenosis (isr) was more frequently observed than de novo lesions. impact of diabetes mellitus on bifurcation percutaneous coronary intervention: insights from the prospective global registry for the study of bifurcation lesion interventions registry. patients with diabetes were younger and had more cardiovascular risk factors and greater angiographic complexity, including more main vessel calcification and more frequent stenoses in the left main, proximal left anterior descending, and right coronary artery. during a median follow-up of 1,095 days, diabetes was independently associated with greater incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events (hazard ratio [hr] 2.04, 95% confidence intervals [ci] 1.52 to 2.72, p <0.001), myocardial infarction (hr 1.94, 95% ci 1.05 to 3.25, p = 0.033), death (hr 2.26, 95% ci 1.46 to 3.51, p <0.001), and target (hr 1.6, 95% ci 1.01 to 2.66, p = 0.045) and nontarget (hr 2.00, ci 1.06 to 3.78, p = 0.032) vessel revascularization. this study investigated the distribution of risk factors, lesion characteristics and endovascular revascularization (evr) strategies in patients with peripheral arterial disease (pad) with vs without diabetes mellitus (dm).
Are variations in the use of carotid endarterectomy explained by population Need? [SEP] variation and changes in state-specific carotid endarterectomy and 30-day mortality rates, united states, 1991-2000. the objectives of this study were to investigate variations between states and changes in state-specific carotid endarterectomy (cea) and 30-day mortality rates. age-adjusted, state-specific cea rates and 30-day postoperative mortality rates in 1991, 1995 and 2000 were examined, as well as changes in these rates from 1991 to 1995 and from 1995 to 2000. stroke mortality in the general population of each state was used as a crude measure of the need for cea procedure in the state. are variations in the use of carotid endarterectomy explained by population need? to describe variation in utilisation of carotid endarterectomy (cea) within two english health regions and explore relationships between use, need and proximity to services. comparison at a population level with district stroke mortality, hospital admissions and material deprivation. more individuals had bilateral surgery in the yorkshire region than in the northern (11.7% vs. 5.5%, p=0.002). physician discretion and racial variation in the use of surgical procedures. whites had higher rates for eight procedures (abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, appendectomy, cardiac valve replacement, carotid endarterectomy, cholecystectomy, lumbar disk procedures, open reduction/internal fixation of the femur, and tonsillectomy) and lower rates for two procedures, hysterectomy and prostatectomy.
Are there effects of intrauterine cocaine exposure on delinquency during early adolescence? [SEP] prenatal substance exposure: what predicts behavioral resilience by early adolescence? we examined factors predicting behavioral resilience following intrauterine substance exposure in a prospective longitudinal birth-cohort study of 136 early adolescents (ages 12.4-15.9 years) at risk for poor behavioral outcomes. intrauterine substance exposures included in this analysis were cocaine, tobacco, alcohol, and marijuana. in bivariate analyses, none and lower intrauterine cocaine exposure level predicted resilience compared with higher cocaine exposure, but this effect was not found in an adjusted model. in conclusion, caregiver supervision in early adolescence, lower violence exposure in childhood, and lack of intrauterine tobacco exposure predicted behavioral resilience among a cohort of early adolescents with significant social and environmental risk. are there effects of intrauterine cocaine exposure on delinquency during early adolescence? to ascertain whether level of intrauterine cocaine exposure (iuce) is associated with early adolescent delinquent behavior, after accounting for prenatal exposures to other psychoactive substances and relevant psychosocial factors. in the final multivariate model (including level of iuce and cigarette exposure, childhood exposure to violence, and caregiver strictness/supervision) ≥ 3 delinquent behaviors were not significantly associated with level of iuce but were significantly associated with intrauterine exposure to half a pack or more of cigarettes per day and higher levels of childhood exposure to violence, effects substantially unchanged after control for early adolescent violence exposure. in this cohort, prospectively ascertained prenatal exposure to cigarettes and childhood exposure to violence are associated with self-reported delinquent behaviors during early adolescence. contrary to initial popular predictions, intrauterine cocaine is not a strong predictor of adolescent delinquent behaviors in this cohort.
Is expert breast pathology assessment necessary for the management of ductal carcinoma in situ ? [SEP] is expert breast pathology assessment necessary for the management of ductal carcinoma in situ ? current guidelines include a recommendation that a pathologist with expertise in breast disease review all ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) specimens due to the presence of significant variability in pathologic reporting of dcis. the objective of this study was to evaluate the completeness and accuracy of pathologic reporting of dcis over the past decade and to determine the current impact of expert breast pathology assessment on the management of dcis. the impact of expert breast pathology on risk assessment and treatment was determined. expert breast pathology assessments continue to be necessary in the management of dcis. observations on the histopathologic diagnosis of microinvasive carcinoma of the breast. our histopathologic criteria for diagnosing microinvasive carcinoma of the breast may be enunciated as follows: (1) cytologically malignant cells in the stroma associated with in situ carcinoma, (2) absence of basement membrane and myoepithelial cells around the invasive cells, (3) frequent accompanying stromal alterations in the form of myxomatous change and loosening of connective tissue, and (4) the frequent presence of an inflammatory cell infiltrate composed of lymphocytes and plasma cells. in some cases, it is virtually impossible to determine if true invasion is present, and the statement "microinvasive carcinoma of the breast cannot be entirely excluded" may be employed as a last resort. from a clinical perspective, the management of microinvasive carcinoma of the breast ought to be dictated by the individual circumstances in each case. it is hoped that since the uicc has adopted a previously recommended definition of microinvasive carcinoma of the breast, prospective or retrospective studies with uniform diagnostic criteria will be conducted that will enable more definitive conclusions regarding the treatment and prognosis of microinvasive carcinoma of the breast.
Thoracic and thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair: is reimplantation of spinal cord arteries a waste of time? [SEP] thoracic and thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair: is reimplantation of spinal cord arteries a waste of time? the impact of different strategies for management of intercostal and lumbar arteries during repair of thoracic and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms (taa/a) on the prevention of paraplegia remains poorly understood. one hundred consecutive patients with intraoperative monitoring of motor evoked potentials (mep) and somatosensory evoked potentials (ssep) during taa/a repair involving serial segmental artery sacrifice (october 2002 to december 2004) were reviewed. operative mortality was 6%. potentials remained unchanged during the course of serial segmental artery sacrifice, or could be returned to baseline levels by anesthetic and blood pressure manipulation, in 99 of 100 cases. an average of 8.0 +/- 2.6 segmental artery pairs were sacrificed overall, with an average of 4.5 +/- 2.1 segmental pairs sacrificed between t7 and l1, where the artery of adamkiewicz is presumed to arise. postoperative paraplegia occurred in 2 patients. a second ambulatory patient had severe paraparesis albeit normal cerebral function after resuscitation from a respiratory arrest. with monitoring of mep and ssep, sacrifice--without reimplantation--of as many as 15 intercostal and lumbar arteries during taa/a repair is safe, resulting in acceptably low rates of immediate and delayed paraplegia. this experience suggests that routine surgical implantation of segmental vessels is not indicated, and that, with evolving understanding of spinal cord perfusion, endovascular repair of the entire thoracic aorta should ultimately be possible without spinal cord injury.
Is year of radical prostatectomy a predictor of outcome in prostate cancer? [SEP] we aimed to characterize this population, and identify predictors of pathological upgrading, downstaging, and oncological outcomes after robot-assisted radical prostatectomy (rarp). predictive factors for biochemical recurrence after radical prostatectomy in isup grade group 1 prostate cancer: a retrospective cohort with long-term follow-up. long-term outcomes of cribriform-positive and cribriform-negative prostate cancer treated with radical prostatectomy in the protect trial. to retrospectively analyse the results of the prostate testing for cancer and treatment (protect; clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct02044172) trial to establish the association between cribriform-positive and -negative prostate cancer (pca) and the 15-year risk of metastasis or death from pca in patients who underwent radical prostatectomy (rp). a novel positive surgical margin-based scoring system to predict oncologic outcomes after radical prostatectomy. the presence of positive surgical margins after radical prostatectomy is a well-established adverse prognostic factor. predictors of oncological safety for nerve-sparing technique during robot-assisted radical prostatectomy in high-risk prostate cancer. to evaluate patterns and imaging-based predictors of positive surgical margins (psms) in patients with high-risk prostate cancer (pca) undergoing nerve-sparing (ns) robot-assisted radical prostatectomy (rarp). cancer-specific mortality in rare histological subtypes of prostate cancer: radical prostatectomy versus radiation therapy. this study aimed to assess oncological outcomes of salvage radical prostatectomy (srp) versus salvage cryoablation (sca) in patients with localized radio-recurrent disease.
Does health information exchange reduce redundant imaging? [SEP] open health imaging foundation viewer: an extensible open-source framework for building web-based imaging applications to support cancer research. the open health imaging foundation (ohif) viewer is an extensible platform developed to leverage these benefits and address the demand for open-source web-based imaging applications. its adoption could reduce redundancies in software development for national cancer institute-funded projects, including informatics technology for cancer research and the quantitative imaging network. does health information exchange reduce redundant imaging? broad-based electronic health information exchange (hie), in which patients' clinical data follow them between care delivery settings, is expected to produce large quality gains and cost savings. although these benefits are assumed to result from reducing redundant care, there is limited supporting empirical evidence. to evaluate whether hie adoption is associated with decreases in repeat imaging in emergency departments (eds). using regression with ed fixed effects and trends, we performed a retrospective analysis of the impact of hie participation on repeat imaging, comparing 37 eds that initiated hie participation during the study period to 410 eds that did not participate in hie during the same period. hie was associated with reduced probability of repeat ed imaging in all 3 modalities: -8.7 percentage points for ct [95% confidence interval (ci): -14.7, -2.7], -9.1 percentage points for ultrasound (95% ci: -17.2, -1.1), and -13.0 percentage points for chest x-ray (95% ci: -18.3, -7.7), reflecting reductions of 44%-67% relative to sample means. hie was associated with reduced repeat imaging in eds.
Is decompressive surgery effective for spinal cord sarcoidosis accompanied with compressive cervical myelopathy? [SEP] is decompressive surgery effective for spinal cord sarcoidosis accompanied with compressive cervical myelopathy? a retrospective multicenter study of series of 12 patients with spinal cord sarcoidosis who underwent surgery. to evaluate the postoperative outcomes of patients with cervical spinal cord sarcoidosis accompanied with compressive myelopathy and effect of decompressive surgery on the prognosis of sarcoidosis. it is difficult to differentiate spinal cord sarcoidosis from cervical compressive myelopathy. there are no studies regarding the coexistence of compressive cervical myelopathy with cervical spinal cord sarcoidosis and the effect of decompressive surgery. nagoya spine group database included 1560 cases with cervical myelopathy treated with cervical laminectomy or laminoplasty from 2001 to 2005. a total of 12 patients (0.08% of cervical myelopathy) were identified spinal cord sarcoidosis treated with decompressive surgery. as a control subject, 8 patients with spinal cord sarcoidosis without compressive lesion who underwent high-dose steroid therapy without surgery were recruited. the effect of decompression for spinal cord sarcoidosis with compressive myelopathy was not evident. early diagnosis for sarcoidosis from other organ and steroid therapy should be needed.
Endovenous laser ablation in the treatment of small saphenous varicose veins: does site of access influence early outcomes? [SEP] endovenous laser ablation in the treatment of small saphenous varicose veins: does site of access influence early outcomes? the study was performed to evaluate the clinical and technical efficacy of endovenous laser ablation (evla) of small saphenous varicosities, particularly in relation to the site of endovenous access. totally 59 patients with unilateral saphenopopliteal junction incompetence and small saphenous vein reflux underwent evla (810 nm, 14 w diode laser) with ambulatory phlebectomies. small saphenous vein access was gained at the lowest site of truncal reflux. patients were divided into 2 groups: access gained above mid-calf (amc, n = 33) and below mid-calf (bmc, n = 26) levels. outcomes included venous clinical severity scores (vcss), aberdeen varicose vein questionnaire (avvq), patient satisfaction, complications, and recurrence rates. both groups demonstrated significant improvement in vcss, avvq, generic quality of life short form 36, and euroqol scores (p < .05) up to 1 year. no differences were seen between amc and bmc groups for complications (phlebitis: 2 [6%] and 1 [3.8%], p > .05; paresthesia: 2 [6%] and 5 [19%], p = .223) and recurrence (3 [9%] and 1 [3.8%], p = .623), respectively. the site of access in our study does not appear to influence complications specifically neural injury or recurrence rates.
Is a pressor necessary during aortic perfusion and oxygenation therapy of cardiac arrest? [SEP] is a pressor necessary during aortic perfusion and oxygenation therapy of cardiac arrest? occlusion of the descending aorta and infusion of oxygenated ultrapurified polymerized bovine hemoglobin may improve the efficacy of advanced cardiac life support (acls). because selective aortic perfusion and oxygenation (sapo) directly increases coronary perfusion pressure, exogenous epinephrine may not be required. the purpose of this study was to determine whether exogenous epinephrine is necessary during sapo by comparing the rate of return of spontaneous circulation and aortic and coronary perfusion pressures during acls-sapo in animals treated with either intra-aortic epinephrine or saline solution. a prospective, randomized, interventional before-after trial with a canine model of ventricular fibrillation cardiac arrest and acls based on external chest compression was performed. after 3 minutes of basic life support, the aortic occlusion balloon was inflated, and 0.01 mg/kg epinephrine or saline solution was administered through the aortic catheter followed by 450 ml of ultrapurified polymerized bovine hemoglobin over 2 minutes. defibrillation was then attempted. the addition of epinephrine to acls-sapo increases vital organ perfusion pressures and improves outcome from cardiac arrest. there appears to be a profound loss of arterial vasomotor tone after prolonged arrest. this loss of vasomotor tone may make exogenous pressors necessary for resuscitation after prolonged cardiac arrest.
Do people who were passive smokers during childhood have increased risk of long-term work disability? [SEP] do people who were passive smokers during childhood have increased risk of long-term work disability? a 15-month prospective study of nurses' aides. regular inhalation of tobacco smoke, whether it be voluntary or not, may have profound negative effects on the body. also intervertebral discs may be affected. the objective of the present study was to test the hypothesis that nurses' aides who were exposed to environmental tobacco smoke (ets) at home during childhood have an increased risk of long-term sick leave. the sample comprised 5563 norwegian nurses' aides, not on sick leave when they completed a mailed questionnaire in 1999. the outcome measure was the incidence proportion of long-term sick leave during the 12 months prior to the follow-up. respondents who reported at baseline that they had been exposed to ets at home during childhood had increased risk of sick leave exceeding 14 days attributed to neck pain (odds ratio (or) = 1.34; 95% confidence interval (ci): 1.04-1.73), high back pain (or=1.49; ci: 1.07-2.06), low back pain (or=1.21; ci: 0.97-1.50), and any illness (or=1.23; ci: 1.07-1.42), after adjustments for demographic and familial characteristics, former smoking, current smoking, physical leisure-time activities, work factors, prior neck injury, and affective symptoms. they also had increased risk of sick leave exceeding 8 weeks (or=1.29; ci: 1.08-1.55). the study supports the hypothesis that nurses' aides who were exposed to ets at home during childhood have an increased risk of long-term sickness absence.
Is the covering of the resection margin after distal pancreatectomy advantageous? [SEP] 
Does treatment duration affect outcome after radiotherapy for prostate cancer? [SEP] correlation between electronic patient-reported outcomes and biological markers of key parameters in acute radiation cystitis among patients with prostate cancer (rabbio): prospective observational study. the radiotoxicity bladder biomarkers study aims to investigate the correlation between blood and urinary biomarkers and the intensity of acute rc symptoms and qol in patients undergoing localized prostate cancer radiotherapy. this study included patients with low- or intermediate-risk localized prostate cancer who were eligible for localized radiotherapy. these preliminary findings suggest that serum and urine levels of hepatocyte growth factor, m-csf, and macrophagic inflammatory protein, as well as macrophage polarization, are mobilized after prostate radiotherapy. previous prostate/urethral surgery, prostate cancer, pelvic radiotherapy, concomitant lower urinary tract surgery. outcome after psma-pet/ct-based salvage radiotherapy for nodal recurrence after radical prostatectomy. duration of sick leave after active surveillance, surgery or radiotherapy for localised prostate cancer: a nationwide cohort study. during the first 5 years after diagnosis, men with active surveillance as their primary treatment strategy spent a mean of 17 days (95% ci 15 to 19) on prostate cancer-specific sick leave, as compared with 46 days (95% ci 44 to 48) after radical prostatectomy and 44 days (95% ci 38 to 50) after radiotherapy. combining abiraterone and radiotherapy in prostate cancer patients who progressed during abiraterone therapy. this multicenter, retrospective, 'field-practice' study investigated treatment outcomes of ongoing abiraterone therapy with the addition of radiotherapy (rt) - initiated for oligoprogression or with a palliative intent.
Is the urinary biomarkers assessment a non-invasive approach to tubular lesions of the solitary kidney? [SEP] 
Is there a role for fondaparinux in perioperative bridging? [SEP] 
Motor performance in chronic low back pain: is there an influence of pain-related cognitions? [SEP] gait dual-task cost in individuals with chronic low back pain and high avoidance or catastrophizing. trunk resistance to mechanical perturbations, associations with low back pain, pain-related cognitions and movement precision. pain-related cognitions are associated with motor control changes in people with chronic low-back pain (clbp). we assessed pain-related cognitions with the task-specific 'expected back strain'-scale (ebs). these results demonstrate that pain-related cognitions influence trunk movement control and support the idea that more negative pain-related cognitions lead to an increased resistance against perturbations, at the expense of movement precision. attention demands of postural control in non-specific chronic low back pain subjects with low and high pain-related anxiety. impaired postural control in chronic low back pain (clbp) has been attributed to deficits in sensory and motor functions. motor performance in chronic low back pain: is there an influence of pain-related cognitions? chronic low back pain (clbp) is often accompanied by an abnormal motor performance. therefore, the aim of the present study is to get insight in the contribution of both pain experience and pain-related cognitions to general motor task performance in clbp.
Patient comprehension of emergency department care and instructions: are patients aware of when they do not understand? [SEP] evaluation of a longitudinal medical school health literacy curriculum. this paradigm of urgent recognition and response to life-threatening conditions has evolved to apply to acute medical conditions, including sepsis. the "sepsis chain of survival" underscores the importance of early recognition, prompt emergency medical services activation, timely antimicrobial administration and appropriate fluid resuscitation, optimized critical care management, effective source control and infection management, and comprehensive post-sepsis care. this model highlights the critical role of public and healthcare worker awareness, education, community response, and continuous monitoring. strengthening trauma resuscitation education and training in low-resource settings: a call for global inclusion. strengthening trauma resuscitation through structured education and training is critical to improving survival and reducing disparities. embedding trauma education into national health policies and disaster response systems is essential to ensuring sustainable, high-quality trauma care worldwide. a written emergency plan and the prescription of an adrenaline autoinjector as well as instructions for its use are mandatory. transforming the delivery of care from "i" to "we" by developing the crisis resource management skills in pediatric interprofessional teams to handle common emergencies through simulation. crisis resource management skills are crucial to optimize team performance and patient outcomes in such situations.
Can mandibular depiction be improved by changing the thickness of double-oblique computed tomography images? [SEP] can mandibular depiction be improved by changing the thickness of double-oblique computed tomography images? multislice helical computed tomography (ct), which can provide detailed 2-d and 3-d reconstructed images, is useful in imaging diagnosis for dental implant treatment. therefore, in this study, it was performed to clarify the mandibular depiction of double-oblique reconstructed images when changing their thickness. a total of 38 sites in the mandibular molar region were examined using multislice helical ct. the thicknesses of the double-oblique images using multislice helical ct scans were reconstructed in 4 conditions: 0.3 mm, 0.9 mm, 1.6 mm, and 4.1 mm. in double-oblique images, mandibular depiction was evaluated by 5 oral radiologists using a subjective rating score. in the alveolar crest and the whole of the mandibular canal, the highest value was obtained with 0.9 mm-thick images; however, there was no significant difference between 0.3 mm and 0.9 mm-thick images. we concluded that depiction of the superior wall of the mandibular canal cannot be improved by changing the thickness of images.
Adjuvant radiation of stage III thymoma: is it necessary? [SEP] adjuvant radiation of stage iii thymoma: is it necessary? the criteria for administration of adjuvant radiation therapy after thymoma resection remains controversial, and it is unclear whether patients with masaoka stage iii thymoma benefit from adjuvant radiation. one hundred and seventy-nine patients underwent resection for thymoma, of which 45 had stage iii disease. the addition of adjuvant radiotherapy did not alter local or distant recurrence rates in patients with stage iii thymoma. most patients who have stage iii thymoma undergo complete resection. some patients enjoy prolonged disease-free survival without adjuvant radiation after resection of stage iii thymoma. radiation does not seem to prevent pleural recurrences when given after resection of stage iii thymomas. the use of routine adjuvant radiation after a complete resection of stage iii thymoma needs to be re-addressed. thymoma: treatment and prognosis. thirty-six patients with pathologically confirmed thymoma were treated at m.d.
Inhibin: a new circulating marker of hydatidiform mole? [SEP] inhibin: a new circulating marker of hydatidiform mole? to define the concentrations of inhibin in serum and tissue of patients with hydatidiform mole and assess their value as a clinical marker of the condition. prospective study of new patients with hydatidiform mole, comparison of paired observations, and case-control analysis. seven consecutive referred patients seen over four months with newly diagnosed complete hydatidiform mole, including one in whom the mole was accompanied by viable twin fetuses (case excluded from statistical analysis because of unique clinical features). correlation of serum inhibin concentrations with trophoblastic disease. serum concentrations of inhibin, human chorionic gonadotrophin, and follicle stimulating hormone were compared before and seven to 10 days after evacuation of the mole. before evacuation the serum inhibin concentrations (median 8.3 u/ml; 95% confidence interval 2.4 to 34.5) were significantly greater than in 21 normal women at the same stage of pregnancy (2.8 u/ml; 2.1 to 3.6), and inhibin in molar tissue was also present in high concentrations (578 u/ml cytosol; 158 to 1162). seven to 10 days after evacuation inhibin concentrations in serum samples from the same patients declined significantly to values (0.4 u/ml; 0.1 to 1.4) similar to those seen in the follicular phase of normal menstrual cycles. none of the four patients whose serum inhibin concentrations were 0.4 u/ml or less after evacuation developed persistent trophoblastic disease. in this small study serum inhibin concentrations higher than those found in the early follicular phase one to two weeks after evacuation of a hydatidiform mole seemed to be specific for persistent trophoblastic disease.
Is the fibronectin-aggrecan complex present in cervical disk disease? [SEP] 
Does peritoneal dialysis affect halitosis in patients with end-stage renal disease? [SEP] does peritoneal dialysis affect halitosis in patients with end-stage renal disease? there are various causes of halitosis, one of which is chronic renal failure. the objective of this study was to investigate halitosis levels in end-stage renal disease (esrd) patients before and after peritoneal dialysis (pd) therapy. 42 subjects with esrd were included in this study. the presence of halitosis was assessed using an organoleptic measurement and compared with blood urea nitrogen (bun) levels and salivary flow rates. decayed, missing, and filled teeth (dmft) index and community periodontal index (cpi) were calculated. mean serum bun level was found to be lower (46.05 ± 13.30 vs 91.24 ± 31.28 mg/dl), salivary flow rate higher (0.34 ± 0.07 vs 0.26 ± 0.04 ml/minute), and halitosis level lower (2.39 ± 0.60 vs 3.90 ± 0.37) at the end of 3 months of pd therapy than at the beginning of pd therapy. there was statistically significant positive correlation between the presence of halitosis and bun levels (r = 0.702, p = 0.001 before pd; r = 0.45, p = 0.002 after pd) and a negative correlation between the presence of halitosis and salivary flow rates (r = -0.69, p = 0.000 before pd; r = -0.37, p = 0.01 after pd). high bun levels and low salivary flow rates were found to be associated with halitosis. pd may play an important role in decreasing the level of halitosis in esrd patients.
Can elevated troponin I levels predict complicated clinical course and inhospital mortality in patients with acute pulmonary embolism? [SEP] cardiac troponin i levels in acute pulmonary embolism. the aim of this study was to assess the ability of admission troponin i (tni) levels to predict short-term mortality and complicated clinical course in patients with pe. in patients with normal blood pressure we observed a significant difference in mortality in patients with elevated vs. normal troponin level (14.3 vs. 2.5%, p = 0.02). elevated troponin level in normotensive patient was associated with 4-fold times higher risk of death. can elevated troponin i levels predict complicated clinical course and inhospital mortality in patients with acute pulmonary embolism? the purpose of this study was to evaluate the value of elevated cardiac troponin i (ctni) for prediction of complicated clinical course and in-hospital mortality in patients with confirmed acute pulmonary embolism (pe). troponin i may play an important role for the risk assessment of patients with pe. importance of cardiac troponins i and t in risk stratification of patients with acute pulmonary embolism. cardiac troponins i (ctni) and t (ctnt) are reliable indicators of myocardial injury and may be associated with right ventricular dysfunction in pe. importantly, there was obvious escalation of in-hospital mortality, the rate of complications, and the incidence of recurrent pe, when patients with high troponin concentrations (ctni >1.5; ctnt >0.1 ng/ml) were compared with those with only moderately elevated levels (ctni, 0.07 to 1.5; ctnt, 0.04 to 0.1 ng/ml).
Is transurethral catheterisation the ideal method of bladder drainage? [SEP] is transurethral catheterisation the ideal method of bladder drainage? a survey of patient satisfaction with indwelling transurethral urinary catheters. bladder catheterisation is a routine part of major abdominal surgery. transurethral catheterisation is the most common method of bladder drainage but is also notorious for its discomfort and increased risk of urinary tract infection. the present study aimed to establish patient satisfaction with transurethral catheterisation and to assess the incidence of clinically significant urinary tract infections after transurethral catheterisation through survey. all patients who underwent major open abdominal surgery between october 2006 and december 2008 and required standard transurethral bladder catheterisation, were asked to participate in the study. male patients were more dissatisfied than their female counterparts with transurethral catheterisation (satisfaction score: 4.18/10 vs. 2.75/10; p = 0.05). half the patients in the study also had symptoms of urinary tract infection after catheter removal. our study emphasised the discomfort of transurethral urinary catheters, especially in male patients, and the high incidence of urinary tract infections in both sexes. consideration should be given to the utilisation of alternative methods of bladder drainage, such as suprapubic catheterisation, which can be performed with ease during laparotomy.
The colour of pain: can patients use colour to describe osteoarthritis pain? [SEP] synovial pathology has been linked to osteoarthritis (oa) pain in patients. the colour of pain: can patients use colour to describe osteoarthritis pain? the aim of the present study was to explore patients' views on the acceptability and feasibility of using colour to describe osteoarthritis (oa) pain, and whether colour could be used to communicate pain to healthcare professionals. discussion topics included first impressions about using colour to describe pain, whether participants could associate their pain with colour, how colours related to changes to intensity and different pain qualities, and whether they could envisage using colour to describe pain to healthcare professionals. the group interviews indicated that, although the idea of using colour was generally acceptable, it did not suit all participants as a way of describing their pain. the majority of participants chose red to describe high-intensity pain; the reasons given were because red symbolized inflammation, fire, anger and the stop signal in a traffic light system. a range of colours was chosen to represent changes in pain intensity. aching pain was consistently identified as being associated with colours such as grey or black, whereas sharp pain was described using a wider selection of colours. the majority of participants thought that they would be able to use colour to describe their pain to healthcare professionals, although issues around the interpretability and standardization of colour were raised. for some patients, using colour to describe their pain experience may be a useful tool to improve doctor-patient communication.
Inpatient Pediatric Tonsillectomy: Does Hospital Type Affect Cost and Outcomes of Care? [SEP] inpatient pediatric tonsillectomy: does hospital type affect cost and outcomes of care? to ascertain whether hospital type is associated with differences in total cost and outcomes for inpatient tonsillectomy. children ≤18 years of age undergoing tonsillectomy with/without adenoidectomy were included. risk-adjusted generalized linear models assessed for differences in hospital cost and length of stay (los) among children managed by (1) non-children's teaching hospitals (ncths), (2) children's teaching hospitals (cths), and (3) nonteaching hospitals (nths). the 25,685 tonsillectomies recorded in the kid yielded a national estimate of 40,591 inpatient tonsillectomies performed in 2006, 2009, and 2012. the cths had significantly higher risk-adjusted total cost and los per tonsillectomy compared with ncths and nths ($9423.34/2.8 days, $6250.78/2.11 days, and $5905.10/2.08 days, respectively; p < .001). significant differences in costs, outcomes, and patient factors exist for inpatient tonsillectomy based on hospital type. although reasons for these differences are not discernable using isolated claims data, findings provide a foundation to further evaluate patient, institutional, and system-level factors that may reduce cost of care and improve value for inpatient tonsillectomy. to identify patient and hospital characteristics associated with the choice of treatment for pediatric patients who present in the acute setting with peritonsillar abscess/cellulitis (pta/ptc). we found that hispanic patients, those with medicaid as their primary expected payer, and those treated at a designated children's hospital were 3 nonclinical factors independently associated with an increase in likelihood of receiving tonsillectomy as treatment.
Does anterior laxity of the uninjured knee influence clinical outcomes of ACL reconstruction? [SEP] two laxity-based tensioning procedures were randomized: (1) tension set to restore normal anteroposterior (ap) laxity at time of surgery relative to the contralateral uninjured knee (low-tension group) or (2) tension set to overconstrain ap laxity at time of surgery relative to the contralateral knee (high-tension group). does anterior laxity of the uninjured knee influence clinical outcomes of acl reconstruction? the purpose of this study was to evaluate the association between the postoperative outcomes of anterior cruciate ligament (acl) reconstruction and the anterior laxity of the uninjured knee. patients were divided into three groups according to the anterior laxity of the contralateral, normal knee in 30° of knee flexion as measured with a kt2000 arthrometer exerting a force of 134 n: <5 mm for group 1, 5 to 7.5 mm for group 2, and >7.5 mm for group 3. anterior laxity of the uninjured knee was assessed preoperatively, and anterior laxity of the reconstructed knee was assessed at twenty-four months postoperatively. the mean side-to-side difference in anterior laxity of the reconstructed knee was 2.1 ± 1.3 mm in group 1, 2.2 ± 1.3 mm in group 2, and 2.9 ± 1.4 mm in group 3. greater anterior laxity of the uninjured knee was associated with poorer stability and functional outcomes after acl reconstruction. excessive anterior laxity of the uninjured knee thus appears to represent a risk factor for inferior outcomes. does chronic medial collateral ligament laxity influence the outcome of anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction? we have shown in a previous study that patients with combined lesions of the anterior cruciate (acl) and medial collateral ligaments (mcl) had similar anteroposterior (ap) but greater valgus laxity at 30° after reconstruction of the acl when compared with patients who had undergone reconstruction of an isolated acl injury.
Is the type of remission after a major depressive episode an important risk factor to relapses in a 4-year follow up? [SEP] 
Prostate-specific antigen and free prostate-specific antigen in the early detection of prostate cancer: do combination tests improve detection? [SEP] psa testing is widely used for the early detection of prostate cancer (pca), but its low specificity leads to overdiagnosis and unnecessary interventions. prostate-specific antigen (psa) testing has long been central to prostate cancer detection but is limited by poor specificity, resulting in overdiagnosis and unnecessary prostate biopsies. recent data further indicate that integrated diagnostic approaches incorporating s2,3psa%, phi, and pi-rads scoring can meaningfully reduce unnecessary prostate biopsies without compromising detection of clinically significant disease. to address the persistent challenges associated with prostate-specific antigen (psa) screening, a multicenter study was conducted to evaluate whether urinary micrornas, in combination with the free-to-total psa (f/tpsa) ratio, could improve prostate cancer (pca) detection while minimizing unnecessary biopsies. the efficacy of different biomarkers and endpoints to refine referrals for suspected prostate cancer: the target study (tiered integrated tests for early diagnosis of clinically significant prostate tumours). the majority of prostate cancer diagnoses are facilitated by testing serum prostate specific antigen (psa) levels. to investigate and further validate if two novel cancer-related glycoproteins, discovered by a genetic-guided proteomics approach, can distinguish benign disease from prostate cancer (pca) in men with enlarged prostates. beyond prostate-specific antigen: utilizing novel strategies to screen men for prostate cancer. the purpose of this article is to review blood and urine tests that are currently available and under investigation for a role in prostate cancer screening and detection. compared with total prostate-specific antigen (psa) alone, its combination with percentage free-to-total psa contributes greater specificity for prostate cancer, and is a component of two newer blood tests called the 4kscore and prostate health index.
Can homemade alcohol (Raksi) be useful for preserving dead bodies? [SEP] can homemade alcohol (raksi) be useful for preserving dead bodies? embalming is the through disinfection and art of preserving bodies after death using chemical substances. it keeps a body life like in appearance during the time it lies in a state prior to funeral. this study was undertaken to investigate the effectiveness of raksi in sacrificed rats in arresting postmortem changes and establishing scientific fact whether raksi can be an alternative to standard embalming constituent if it is not available. raksi and distilled water were injected for embalming purpose intraventricularly in experiment and control groups of rats respectively and kept for 48 to 96 hours for observation for postmortem changes. observations made at 48 and 72 hours of embalming revealed that raksi can arrest postmortem changes in the rats up to 72 hours (3rd day) successfully in the experimental group whereas moderate to severe postmortem changes were seen in the control group. the experimental group showed mild degree of putrefactive changes, liberation of gases and liquefaction of tissues only at 96 hours (4th day) of embalming. the raksi used in this experiment contained 34% of alcohol, which was determined by an alcohol hydrometer. experiment clearly demonstrated from its result that raksi can be utilised temporarily for embalming since it contains alcohol and has preservative, bactericidal and disinfectant properties. it is concluded from the study that this knowledge if applied to dead human subjects, may preserve dead bodies temporarily allowing delayed funeral.
Do elderly cancer patients have different care needs compared with younger ones? [SEP] diagnosis of colon cancer differs in younger versus older patients despite similar complaints. since age is a risk factor, young patients might not be given the same attention as older ones regarding symptoms that could imply the presence of colon cancer. to investigate whether young patients, i.e., under age 50, complain of symptoms for longer than older patients until the diagnosis of colon cancer is established. do elderly cancer patients have different care needs compared with younger ones? the increasingly older population confronts oncologists with an imposing challenge: older cancer patients have specific healthcare needs both independent of and associated with the diagnosis of cancer. the aim of the present study is to examine whether elderly versus younger cancer patients have different needs with respect to attendance, treatment and information. cancer patients aged 35 to 82 years were consecutively interviewed. the requests most frequently expressed by the older group concerned financial-insurance information (73.9%), the need to talk to people with the same illness (71.7%), the need to receive more comprehensible information from doctors and nurses (71.7%), and the need for a better dialogue with clinicians (69.6%). elderly patients have informational and relational needs similar to those of younger patients. to investigate the association between costs and age as a prognostic factor for treatment eligibility, patients were classified in two age groups (under 65 or >65).
Is breast cancer survival improving? [SEP] reduced aldh1l1 expression is associated with aggressive clinicopathologic features and poorer survival in breast cancer, with a particularly evident and clinically relevant prognostic impact in the luminal a subtype. the clinical benefit of available treatments in metastatic hormone receptor (hr)+/her2-breast cancer (bc) remains limited due to the onset of resistance mechanisms, hence the need for increasingly personalized therapies targeting specific molecular alterations. in the matched cohort, surgery was associated with significantly improved overall and cancer-specific survival. this qualitative study used semistructured interviews conducted online between january 27 and april 1, 2025, with patients aged 18 years or older diagnosed with breast cancer. breast cancer remains one of the leading causes of cancer-related mortality among women worldwide, emphasizing the urgent need for improved diagnostic and therapeutic strategies. breast cancer remains one of the leading causes of cancer-related mortality among women worldwide, emphasizing the urgent need for improved diagnostic and therapeutic strategies. association of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin with improved overall survival compared with epirubicin in early-stage breast cancer: a population based study from taiwan. anthracycline-based regimens are a cornerstone of adjuvant therapy for early-stage breast cancer but are limited by cumulative cardiotoxicity. this population-based retrospective cohort study used taiwan's national health insurance research database to identify adult women with stage i-iii, her2-negative breast cancer treated with adjuvant anthracycline-based chemotherapy between 2006 and 2018. kaplan-meier curves confirmed superior overall survival in the lipo-dox group (log-rank p < 0.001).
Can common carotid intima media thickness serve as an indicator of both cardiovascular phenotype and risk among black Africans? [SEP] 
Delayed diagnosis of anorectal malformations: are current guidelines sufficient? [SEP] delayed diagnosis of anorectal malformations: are current guidelines sufficient? to determine the frequency and presenting features of infants with delayed diagnosis of anorectal malformations (arm) referred to an australian tertiary paediatric institution. infants referred to our institution with a final diagnosis of arm were retrospectively reviewed between 2001 and 2009. the first cohort consisted of patients that were referred between november 2001 and november 2006 with the diagnosis of an arm that had been delayed for more than 48 h. the second cohort was those referred between december 2006 and may 2009 with whom the diagnosis of arm had not been made within 24 h of birth. nineteen infants were referred with delayed diagnosis of an arm over the 7.5 years of the study. of 44 patients referred to our institution between december 2006 and may 2009, diagnosis of an arm was delayed more than 24 h in 14 (32%). there was no difference in gender, birth weight, prematurity, type of malformation or presence of associated anomalies between those with timely and delayed diagnosis of their arm. a significantly greater proportion of those with a delayed diagnosis presented with obstructive symptoms (86% vs. 27%, p < 0.001), including abdominal distension (57%) and delayed passage of meconium or stool (29%). despite undergoing neonatal examination, the diagnosis of arm was missed in 12 patients overall. current guidelines appear insufficient to ensure prompt diagnosis of arm.
Is being small for gestational age a risk factor for retinopathy of prematurity? [SEP] retinopathy of prematurity: clinical profiles and risk factors. retinopathy of prematurity (rop) is a vasoproliferative retinal disease affecting preterm infants due to abnormal oxygen and growth factor regulation, strongly associated with low birth weight and prematurity. retinopathy of prematurity (rop) is a disorder of the developing retina in which abnormal proliferation of retinal blood vessels may lead to severe visual compromise or retinal detachment in infants born preterm. we aimed to determine the risk factors for retinopathy of prematurity (rop) and investigate the effects of the expanded screening criteria according to the 2021 update of the turkish neonatology society guidelines on the clinical outcomes of premature infants and the incidence of severe rop. this study aimed to evaluate the prevalence and risk factors of retinopathy of prematurity (rop) in preterm infants with a birth weight (bw)>1500 g or gestational age (ga) >32 weeks in turkiye. retinopathy of prematurity in late preterm and early term neonates: incidence and risk factors in a prospective cohort. incidence, risk factors and evolving treatment of severe retinopathy of prematurity in china: a retrospective multicenter cohort study in 70 neonatal intensive care units. to investigate the current incidence, risk factors and treatment for severe retinopathy of prematurity (rop) in very preterm infants in china. diagnosis and risk factors in retinopathy of prematurity: a five-year single-center descriptive study. we aimed to determine the incidence and screening outcomes of retinopathy of prematurity (rop) in preterm infants managed at a tertiary neonatal intensive care unit (nicu) and to identify associated risk factors.
Comparative safety of infliximab and etanercept on the risk of serious infections: does the association vary by patient characteristics? [SEP] comparative safety of infliximab and etanercept on the risk of serious infections: does the association vary by patient characteristics? infliximab, a chimeric monoclonal anti-tnfα antibody, has been found to increase the risk of serious infections compared with the tnf receptor fusion protein etanercept in some studies. it is unclear whether the risk varies by patient characteristics. we conducted a study to address this question. we identified members of kaiser permanente northern california who initiated infliximab (n = 793) or etanercept (n = 2692) in 1997-2007. using a cox model, we estimated the propensity-score-adjusted hazard ratio (hr) and 95% confidence interval (ci) of serious infections requiring hospitalization or opportunistic infections comparing infliximab initiators to etanercept initiators. the crude incidence rate of serious infections per 100 person-years was 5.4 (95%ci: 3.8, 7.5) in patients <65 years and 16.0 (95%ci: 10.4, 23.4) in patients ≥ 65 years during the first 3 months following treatment initiation. compared with etanercept, the adjusted hr during this period was elevated for infliximab in patients <65 years (hr: 3.01; 95%ci: 1.49, 6.07), but not in those ≥ 65 years (hr 0.94; 95%ci: 0.41, 2.13). an increased risk of serious infections associated with infliximab relative to etanercept did not appear to be modified by patients' sex, race/ethnicity, body mass index, or smoking status. there was an indication that the increased risk might be limited to patients <65 years.
Fast foods - are they a risk factor for asthma? [SEP] frequent dietary patterns for fast food diets are suggested to be a risk factor for atopic disease development. fast food and sweet intake pattern is directly associated with the prevalence of asthma in a qatari population. the fast food/sweet dietary pattern was associated with increased likelihood of having asthma [comparing high vs. low tertile, or for asthma = 1.25; 95% ci (1.02-1.54); p = 0.035]. the fast food/sweet dietary pattern was directly associated with the prevalence of asthma among adults in qatar. the frequency of fast food consumption in relation to wheeze and asthma among adolescents in gauteng and north west provinces, south africa. the study aimed to investigate the association between the frequency of fast food consumption with wheeze and asthma among adolescents. the results from the adjusted regression analyses indicated that eating fast foods three or more times per week was a statistically significant risk factor for wheeze (or = 1.60; 95% ci: 1.26-2.03) and asthma (or = 1.37; 95% ci: 1.04-1.91). the study found an association between eating fast foods three or more times per week and wheeze and asthma among adolescents in south africa. in both cohorts antenatal maternal smoking and environmental smoking exposure were predominantly associated with asthma, and consumption of fast foods and fried meats were associated with allergy. conversely, intake of fastfood was positively associated with a higher prevalence of wheeze in adolescents.
Can magnetic resonance-ultrasound fusion biopsy improve cancer detection in enlarged prostates? [SEP] can magnetic resonance-ultrasound fusion biopsy improve cancer detection in enlarged prostates? patients with an enlarged prostate and suspicion of prostate cancer pose a diagnostic dilemma. the prostate cancer detection rate of systematic 12-core transrectal ultrasound guided biopsy is between 30% and 40%. magnetic resonance-ultrasound fusion biopsy has shown superior prostate cancer detection rates. we defined the detection rate of magnetic resonance-ultrasound fusion biopsy in men with an enlarged prostate gland. we retrospectively analyzed the records of patients who underwent multiparametric prostate magnetic resonance imaging followed by magnetic resonance-ultrasound fusion biopsy at our institution. multivariable logistic regression showed a significant inverse association of magnetic resonance imaging volume with prostate cancer detection, controlling for age and prostate specific antigen. transrectal ultrasound guided and fusion biopsy cancer detection rates decreased with increasing prostate volume. however, magnetic resonance-ultrasound fusion biopsy had a higher prostate cancer detection rate compared to that of transrectal ultrasound guided biopsy in the literature. magnetic resonance-ultrasound fusion biopsy represents a promising solution for patients with suspicion of prostate cancer and an enlarged prostate.
Does normothermic normokalemic simultaneous antegrade/retrograde perfusion improve myocardial oxygenation and energy metabolism for hypertrophied hearts? [SEP] does normothermic normokalemic simultaneous antegrade/retrograde perfusion improve myocardial oxygenation and energy metabolism for hypertrophied hearts? beating-heart valve surgery appears to be a promising technique for protection of hypertrophied hearts. normothermic normokalemic simultaneous antegrade/retrograde perfusion (nnsp) may improve myocardial perfusion. however, its effects on myocardial oxygenation and energy metabolism remain unclear. the present study was to determine whether nnsp improved myocardial oxygenation and energy metabolism of hypertrophied hearts relative to normothermic normokalemic antegrade perfusion (nnap). twelve hypertrophied pig hearts underwent a protocol consisting of three 20-minute perfusion episodes (10 minutes nnap and 10 minutes nnsp in a random order) with each conducted at a different blood flow in the left anterior descending coronary artery (lad [100%, 50%, and 20% of its initial control]). myocardial oxygenation was assessed using near-infrared spectroscopic imaging. myocardial energy metabolism was monitored using localized phosphorus-31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy. normothermic normokalemic simultaneous antegrade/retrograde perfusion did not improve, but slightly impaired myocardial oxygenation and energy metabolism of beating hypertrophied hearts relative to nnap. therefore, nnsp for protection of beating hypertrophied hearts during valve surgery should be used with extra caution.
Are there progressive brain changes in schizophrenia? [SEP] reduced pnn density characterizes schizophrenia, bd, and mdd, linking to excessive synaptic pruning and excitatory-inhibitory imbalance. the author reports a rare single modern case of a woman with lifelong untreated schizophrenia who developed ad-like dementia in her late 50 s, supporting the speculative hypothesis that ad was once a frequent terminal stage in the natural history of schizophrenia prior to the advent of antipsychotic therapy in the 1950s. epidemiologic data show substantially elevated dementia prevalence in elderly schizophrenics. emerging evidence links schizophrenia and ad through shared neurobiological mechanisms, including neuroinflammation and structural brain changes. this hypothesis, that neurogenesis stimulated by chronic antipsychotic therapy mitigates neurodegeneration, offers a unifying model for the decline in dementia incidence among treated schizophrenics and reframes adherence motivation: treating schizophrenia may not only control psychosis but also protect against ad, a condition even schizophrenic patients fear. comparison of the effects of antipsychotic and combined with non-invasive brain stimulation on blood lipids in patients with schizophrenia. schizophrenia is characterized by impaired brain health, including gray matter reductions and cognitive dysfunction, with vascular and glymphatic dysfunction emerging as key contributors. prior studies reported potential glymphatic impairment in schizophrenia, but its relationship to the stage of illness and impact on interstitial fluid dynamics remains unclear. we investigated: (1) the presence of dti-alps alterations in chr and its relative magnitude across disease stages; (2) its association with symptom severity; (3) its correlation with fw; and (4) its relationship to likely origins of neuroanatomical progression in schizophrenia from the hippocampal region. lower dti-alps was correlated with higher fw, longer duration of untreated psychosis, and was selectively pronounced in the fep subgroup, whose structural changes may originate from the hippocampal region.
Does concept mapping enhance learning outcome of nursing students? [SEP] concept mapping and mind mapping are increasingly applied in nursing education to strengthen critical thinking, knowledge integration, and clinical performance. this systematic review aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of concept mapping and mind mapping as educational interventions for pediatric nurses and nursing students, with a focus on their impact on learning outcomes and professional practice. evidence consistently indicated that concept mapping and mind mapping were effective educational strategies for both pediatric nurses and nursing students. concept mapping and mind mapping are effective educational methods for strengthening pediatric nursing education and practice. to demonstrate that outcome-based course design using concept mapping would bring about significant differences in the nursing students' competency, cognitive load, and learning satisfaction with the neurological care course. this article provides that outcome-based concept mapping as educational method could encourage a group of nursing students to take a bio-psycho-social approach to medicine, which might ultimately result in better nursing care quality. does concept mapping enhance learning outcome of nursing students? the aim of this study was to assess the concept mapping as a teaching method in the academic achievement of nursing students. in conclusion, concept mapping has a positive effect on students' academic achievement. these findings could provide valuable evidence for establishing concept mapping as a continuous teaching strategy for nursing students.
Is the Androgen Deficiency of Aging Men (ADAM) questionnaire useful for the screening of partial androgenic deficiency of aging men? [SEP] 
Does the Transmissible Liability Index (TLI) assessed in late childhood predict suicidal symptoms at young adulthood? [SEP] 
Are there gender differences in the reasons why African Americans delay in seeking medical help for symptoms of an acute myocardial infarction? [SEP] are there gender differences in the reasons why african americans delay in seeking medical help for symptoms of an acute myocardial infarction? to identify gender differences in delay time and the reasons why african americans delay in seeking medical care for symptoms of acute myocardial infarction (ami). sixty-one african american men and women diagnosed with an ami. median delay time was longer for women compared to men (4.4 hours vs 3.5 hours), although the difference was not significant. single women delayed longer than single men (p = .03), and women who were alone when symptoms began delayed longer than women with someone (p = .03). women who received advice to seek help or call 911 upon symptom onset had shorter delays compared to women who were not advised to call 911 (p = .01). men at home delayed longer than men who experienced their symptoms outside the home (p = .01). men with emergency room insurance delayed longer than men without emergency room insurance (p = .03), and men who took an ambulance to the hospital had shorter delay times than men who took other means of transportation (p = .04). women compared to men often delay seeking treatment for an ami, which further increases their risks. our findings suggest specific characteristics that can serve as a profile to those african americans most likely to delay seeking treatment for ami.
Does histologic chorioamnionitis correspond to clinical chorioamnionitis? [SEP] the odds of clinical chorioamnionitis were almost 3-fold higher among infant-mother dyads with histological fetal inflammatory response than among infant-mother dyads with histological chorioamnionitis alone (pooled odds ratio, 2.99; 95% confidence interval, 1.96-4.55). term histologic chorioamnionitis: a heterogeneous condition. a histologic response of histologic chorioamnionitis (hca) is defined as an intrauterine inflammatory condition characterized by acute granulocyte infiltration into the fetal-maternal or the fetal tissues. a clinical prediction rule for histological chorioamnionitis in preterm newborns. histological chorioamnionitis (hc) is an intrauterine inflammatory process highly associated with preterm birth and adverse neonatal outcome. does histologic chorioamnionitis correspond to clinical chorioamnionitis? to evaluate the degree to which histologic chorioamnionitis, a frequent finding in placentas submitted for histopathologic evaluation, correlates with clinical indicators of infection in the mother. a retrospective review was performed on 52 cases with a histologic diagnosis of acute chorioamnionitis from 2,051 deliveries at university hospital, newark, from january 2003 to july 2003. the presence of 1 or more clinical indicators was significantly associated with the presence of histologic chorioamnionitis (p = 0.019). histologic chorioamnionitis is a reliable indicator of infection whether or not it is clinically apparent.
Does sonographic needle guidance affect the clinical outcome of intraarticular injections? [SEP] this randomized controlled study addressed whether sonographic needle guidance affected the outcomes of corticosteroid injection for symptomatic carpal tunnel syndrome. a randomized controlled trial evaluating the cost-effectiveness of sonographic guidance for intra-articular injection of the osteoarthritic knee. the present randomized controlled study investigated whether sonographic needle guidance affected the outcomes of intra-articular injection for osteoarthritis of the knee. sonographic needle guidance reduced procedural pain and improved the clinical outcomes and cost-effectiveness of intra-articular injections of the osteoarthritic knee. we studied whether sonographic needle guidance affected the outcomes of intraarticular (ia) injection for inflammatory arthritis. sonographic needle guidance improves the performance, clinical outcomes, and cost-effectiveness of ia injections for inflammatory arthritis. does sonographic needle guidance affect the clinical outcome of intraarticular injections? this randomized controlled study addressed whether sonographic needle guidance affected clinical outcomes of intraarticular (ia) joint injections. sonographic needle guidance significantly improves the performance and outcomes of outpatient ia injections in a clinically significant manner. the aim of this study was to evaluate the accuracy and outcome of sonographically guided intra-articular sodium hyaluronate injections in patients with osteoarthritis of the hip.
Pancreas retransplantation:  a second chance for diabetic patients? [SEP] pancreas retransplantation: a second chance for diabetic patients? if pancreas transplantation is a validated alternative for type 1 diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease, the management of patients who have lost their primary graft is poorly defined. this study aims at evaluating pancreas retransplantation outcome. between 1976 and 2008, 569 pancreas transplantations were performed in lyon and geneva, including 37 second transplantations. predictive factors of second graft survival were sought. second pancreas survival of the 17 patients transplanted from 1995 was close to primary graft survival of the whole population (71% vs. 79% at 1 year and 59% vs. 69% at 5 years; p=0.5075) and significantly better than their first pancreas survival (71% vs. 29% at 1 year and 59% vs. 7% at 5 years; p=0.0008) regardless of the cause of first pancreas loss. the same results were observed with all 37 retransplantations. survival of second simultaneous pancreas and kidney transplantations was better than survival of second pancreas after kidney. pancreas retransplantation had no impact on kidney graft function and survival (100% at 5 years). pancreas retransplantation is a safe procedure with acceptable graft survival that should be proposed to diabetic patients who have lost their primary graft.
Factors determining the survival of nasopharyngeal carcinoma with lung metastasis alone: does combined modality treatment benefit? [SEP] retrospective analysis of 234 nasopharyngeal carcinoma patients with distant metastasis at initial diagnosis: therapeutic approaches and prognostic factors. the purpose of this retrospective study was to identify the independent prognostic factors and optimize the treatment for nasopharyngeal carcinoma (npc) patients with distant metastasis at initial diagnosis. subgroup analysis showed that significantly improved survival was also achieved by radiotherapy of the primary tumor in patients who achieved complete remission (cr)/partial remission (pr) or stable disease (sd) of metastatic lesions after chemotherapy. a combination of radiotherapy and chemotherapy seems to have survival benefits for selected patients with distant metastases at initial diagnosis. factors determining the survival of nasopharyngeal carcinoma with lung metastasis alone: does combined modality treatment benefit? nasopharyngeal carcinoma (npc) with lung metastasis alone has been reported as a relatively favorable prognostic group, and combined modality treatment might be indicated for selected cases. we retrospectively reviewed 246 patients of npc with lung metastasis(es) alone presented at diagnosis or as the first failure after primary treatment from 1993 to 2008 in an academic tertiary hospital. univariate and multivariate survival analyses of post-metastasis survival (pms) and overall survival (os) were carried out to determine the prognostic factors. the median pms (45.6 months vs. 23.7 months) and os (73.7 months vs. 46.2 months) of patients treated with combined therapy was significantly longer than that of those treated with chemotherapy alone (p < 0.001). age ≤ 45 years, dfi > 1 year, and the combined therapy were good prognostic factors for npc patients with lung metastasis(es) alone.
Do viral infections have a role in benign paroxysmal positional vertigo? [SEP] environmental drivers of vertigo. vertigo is characterized by the illusion of motion, typically described as a spinning sensation. seasonal variations in vertigo incidence, particularly in meniere's disease and benign paroxysmal positional vertigo, have been reported, though underlying mechanisms remain unclear. this study investigates key environmental drivers by analyzing seasonal patterns of vertigo while accounting for temperature, barometric pressure, humidity, and viral infections in israel's semi-arid negev desert. we hypothesized that environmental conditions are associated with the onset of vertigo, and that specific meteorological factors contribute to its seasonal variation. this study suggests that atmospheric conditions, particularly high barometric pressure, may influence vertigo onset. md, bppv, vestibular neuritis, idiopathic facial paralysis, idiopathic acute hearing loss may all have several etiological factors, but a common feature of the current theories is that an initial viral infection and a subsequent autoimmune/autoinflammatory reaction might be involved. do viral infections have a role in benign paroxysmal positional vertigo? to investigate the role of viral infection in benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (bppv). viral infection might promote bppv attacks due to the development of vestibulopathy or induce secondary bppv via viral infection-related neurolabyrinthitis.
Does the enteral feeding advancement affect short-term outcomes in very low birth weight infants? [SEP] does the enteral feeding advancement affect short-term outcomes in very low birth weight infants? controversy exists regarding the optimal enteral feeding regimen of very low birth weight infants (vlbw). rapid advancement of enteral feeding has been associated with an increased rate of necrotizing enterocolitis. in contrast, delaying enteral feeding may have unfavorable effects on nutrition, growth, and neurodevelopment. the aim is to compare the short-term outcomes of vlbw infants in tertiary care centers according to their enteral feeding advancement. we prospectively studied the influence of center-specific enteral feeding advancement in 1430 vlbw infants recruited from 13 tertiary neonatal intensive care units in germany on short-term outcome parameters. the centers were post hoc stratified to "rapid advancement to full enteral feeds" (median duration of advancement to full enteral feeds < or =12.5 days; 6 centers), that is, rapid advancement (ra), or "slow advancement to full enteral feeds" (median duration of advancement to full enteral feeds >12.5 days; 7 centers), that is, slow advancement (sa). vlbw infants born in centers with sa (n = 713) had a significantly higher rate of sepsis compared with vlbw infants born in centers with ra (n = 717), which was particularly evident for late-onset sepsis (14.0% vs 20.4%; p = 0.002). center differences in enteral feeding advancement occur and may have a significant impact on short-term outcomes such as nosocomial sepsis. large, multicenter, prospective trials are required to further elucidate the optimal feeding strategy for vlbw infants.
Is late-night salivary cortisol a better screening test for possible cortisol excess than standard screening tests in obese patients with Type 2 diabetes? [SEP] is late-night salivary cortisol a better screening test for possible cortisol excess than standard screening tests in obese patients with type 2 diabetes? to compare the performance, in terms of specificity for cortisol excess, of late-night salivary cortisol with 24-hour urine-free cortisol (24hr ufc) and overnight 1mg dexamethasone suppression test (1mg dst) in a group of obese t2dm patients. forty obese patients with t2dm without clinical features of cushing's syndrome were recruited. plasma, urinary and salivary cortisol were measured directly by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using monoclonal antibodies. the specificities of the three tests using various cutoffs were calculated and compared, employing the assumption that none of the patients had hypercortisolism. all 40 provided late-night salivary cortisol samples. two patients only completed two screening tests. the specificities of late-night salivary cortisol (cutoff 10 nmol/l), 24hr ufc (400 nmol) and 1mg dst (50 nmol/l) were 70% (95% ci 53-83%), 90% (76-97%) and 72% (55-85%) respectively. the specificity of late-night salivary cortisol was significantly less than 24 hr ufc (p=0.039) but not 1mg dst (p>0.99). late-night salivary cortisol has a poor specificity for cortisol excess in obese patients with t2dm with 24 hr ufc showing significantly better specificity in our population.
Does psychological distress predict disability? [SEP] orthopaedic trauma is frequently accompanied by psychological distress, including depression, anxiety, and post-traumatic stress, particularly in low- and middle-income countries. beyond injury severity and surgical factors, psychological outlook-encompassing negative cognitions (e.g., catastrophising) and positive constructs (e.g., optimism, resilience, social support)-may substantially influence pain, disability, and functional recovery [3,4,6,17,18]. across diverse settings, approximately one-quarter to one-half of orthopaedic trauma patients experience clinically significant psychological distress, which consistently predicts higher pain, greater disability, and poorer quality of life independent of injury characteristics [2-4,14,15,17,18]. although psychological distress is associated with poor adherence, the independent contribution of psychological resilience remains unclear. psychological resilience, psychological distress, coping attitudes, and qol were measured using validated scales, and neurological disability was evaluated using the expanded disability status scale (edss). how do depression, anxiety, and physical complaints affect pain in people with long-term back pain? this study aimed to examine whether pain intensity and psychological factors of the fam predict pain-related disability in individuals with fnd. hierarchical regression analysis assessed whether pain intensity and psychological variables predicted pain-related disability. anxiety independently predicted lower psychological well-being (pw) and social relationships (sr), whereas depression independently predicted lower environmental qol (en); neither symptom showed a unique association with physical capacity (pc) after adjustment. psychological distress plays a significant role in the pain experience of older adults with knee osteoarthritis.
Does preloading with colloids prevent hemodynamic changes when neurosurgical patients are subsequently changed to the seated position? [SEP] 
Does continuous intravenous infusion of low-concentration epinephrine impair uterine blood flow in pregnant ewes? [SEP] does continuous intravenous infusion of low-concentration epinephrine impair uterine blood flow in pregnant ewes? bolus intravenous injection of epinephrine can decrease uterine blood flow. this study examined the effects of intravenous infusion of epinephrine on uterine blood flow in the gravid ewe. maternal and fetal vascular catheters and a maternal electromagnetic uterine artery flow probe were implanted in 10 near-term gravid ewes. after recovery, saline, 0.125% bupivacaine, 0.125% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine, 0.125% bupivacaine with 1:400,000 epinephrine, and 0.125% bupivacaine with 1:800,000 epinephrine were infused into the maternal superior vena cava. animals also received an intravenous bolus of epinephrine 15 micrograms. throughout all infusions, maternal heart rate, systemic and pulmonary blood pressures, uterine blood flow, cardiac output, and acid-base balance were measured, as well as fetal heart rate, blood pressure, and acid-base balance. epinephrine 15 micrograms decreased uterine blood flow to 68 +/- 14% of baseline (mean +/- sd). in gravid ewes, intravenous infusion of < or = 1.67 micrograms/min epinephrine altered neither maternal hemodynamics nor uterine blood flow. to the extent that sheep data can be extrapolated to humans, these results suggest that continuous intravenous infusion of epinephrine in local anesthetic solutions is safe if the epidural catheter should enter a blood vessel during the infusion.
Is there a first night effect on sleep bruxism? [SEP] 
Does menopausal transition affect the quality of life? [SEP] menopause comfort scale: a scale development study. menopause is a transitional period. a large proportion of women experience severe menopausal symptoms, which affect their quality of daily life and comfort. relationship between the severity of menopausal symptoms and quality of life during the menopause transition: a systematic review. menopausal symptoms are common and can affect all aspects of women's quality of life. therefore, it was decided to conduct a systematic review to evaluate the relationship between the severity of menopausal symptoms and quality of life during the transition to menopause. studies that evaluated the relationship between the severity of menopausal symptoms and quality of life in transition to menopause as the main or secondary objective were included in the study. this systematic review found a positive relationship between the severity of menopausal symptoms and the quality of life in studies conducted in most regions. the findings of this study can be used in interventions to improve the quality of life in menopausal women. the menopausal transition is associated with biological, psychological, and social changes that may influence both mental well-being and oral health.
Can clinicians use the PHQ-9 to assess depression in people with vision loss? [SEP] diagnosis of primary open-angle glaucoma and mental health status. clinicians should be aware that informing patients of the diagnosis of glaucoma might be associated with a reduction in the patient's mental health. to test whether mental health status as assessed by the national eye institute's visual function questionnaire-25 (vfq) decreases in patients with ocular hypertension after the diagnosis of early primary open-angle glaucoma (poag). screening for depression is recommended when depression care supports are available; this can be performed with a brief two-item screen, the patient health questionnaire-2. the visual function questionnaire-25 and contrast sensitivity test were used to query vision difficulties. can clinicians use the phq-9 to assess depression in people with vision loss? to investigate whether the patient health questionnaire-9 (phq-9) possesses the essential psychometric characteristics to measure depressive symptoms in people with visual impairment. the phq-9 scale was completed by 103 participants with low vision. unidimensionality was demonstrated confirming the construct validity of the phq-9 and there was no evidence of differential item functioning on a number of factors including visual disability. our findings demonstrate that the phq-9, when scaled with rasch analysis, forms a linear interval measurement of depressive symptoms suitable for use in a vision impaired population.
Should all human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients with end-stage renal disease be excluded from transplantation? [SEP] kidney and liver transplantation in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients: a pilot safety and efficacy study. human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-infected patients have historically been excluded from consideration for transplantation out of concern for the effects of immunosuppression on the progression of hiv disease. improvements in hiv-related morbidity and mortality with the use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (haart) have prompted a reevaluation of transplantation as a treatment option for hiv-infected patients with end-stage kidney and liver disease. should all human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients with end-stage renal disease be excluded from transplantation? human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-infected patients have generally been excluded from transplantation. to explore the current views of u.s. transplant centers toward transplanting asymptomatic hiv-infected patients with end-stage renal disease, a written survey was mailed to the directors of transplantation at all 248 renal transplant centers in the united states. all 148 responding centers said they require hiv testing of prospective kidney recipients, and 84% of these centers would not transplant an individual who refuses hiv testing. the vast majority of responding centers would not transplant a kidney from a cadaveric (88%) or a living donor (91%) into an asymptomatic hiv-infected patient who is otherwise a good candidate for transplantation. most centers fear that transplantation in the face of hiv infection would be harmful to the individual, and some believe that it would be a waste of precious organs. the great majority of u.s. renal transplant centers will not transplant kidneys to hiv-infected patients with end-stage renal disease, even if their infection is asymptomatic.
Is the 7th TNM edition suitable for biological predictor in early gastric cancer? [SEP] 
Does growth hormone replacement therapy reduce mortality in adults with growth hormone deficiency? [SEP] cardiovascular and metabolic outcomes of gh replacement therapy in adults with gh deficiency - gender gaps. adult growth hormone (gh) deficiency is associated with increased body fat mass, abdominal obesity, dyslipidaemia, reduced exercise capacity, impaired cardiac function, reduced self-reported well-being, impaired quality of life, as well as increased morbidity. in adults with gh deficiency (aghd), recent studies suggest a role of gh replacement therapy (ghrt) in improving lean/fat mass ratio, blood pressure, lipid profile, bone metabolism and qol. personalized approach to growth hormone replacement in adults. growth hormone (gh) deficiency (ghd) in adults is well-characterized and includes abnormal body composition, reduced bone mass, an adverse cardiovascular risk profile, and impaired quality of life. adult growth hormone deficiency: from transition to senescence. therapy of endocrine disease: growth hormone replacement therapy in adults: 30 years of personal clinical experience. patients with growth hormone deficiency (ghd) have an increased risk of atherosclerosis and vascular mortality. adult growth hormone deficiency (ghd) is characterized by metabolic abnormalities associated with visceral obesity, impaired quality of life, and increased mortality. life expectancy in patients with pituitary adenoma receiving growth hormone replacement.
Attaining negative margins in breast-conservation operations: is there a consensus among breast surgeons? [SEP] 
Can serum be used for analyzing the EGFR mutation status in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer? [SEP] clinical data from 56 patients with advanced egfr-mutant nsclc admitted to the first affiliated hospital of anhui medical university from april 2021 to april 2023 were retrospectively analyzed. clinical utility of plasma cell-free dna egfr mutation analysis in treatment-naïve stage iv non-small cell lung cancer patients. plasma cell-free deoxyribo nucleic acid epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) mutation tests are widely used at initial diagnosis and at progression in stage iv non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc). we analyzed the factors associated with plasma egfr mutation detection and the effect of plasma egfr genotyping on the clinical outcomes of the patients with treatment-naïve stage iv nsclc. the presence of plasma egfr mutation was determined by real-time polymeric chain reaction. in multivariable analysis, the detection of plasma egfr mutation was significantly related to higher serum carcinoembryonic antigen levels, never-smoker status, n3 stage, and brain or intrathoracic metastasis. the time to treatment initiation (tti) of the plasma egfr mutation-positive group (14 days) was shorter than that of the plasma egfr mutation-negative group (21 days,  smoking status and the factors reflecting tumor burden were associated with the detection of plasma egfr mutation. this multicenter retrospective medical chart review study was conducted at three japanese institutions and involved patients aged 75 years and above with epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) mutation-negative advanced non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc). this study aimed to investigate the value of serum tumor markers (stms) and egfr mutations in the prognostic assessment of progression-free survival (pfs) in advanced-stage egfr-mutated nsclc. patients without lymph node metastasis (p = 0.012), or early stage disease (p < 0.001) exhibited a higher egfr mutation rate.
Are patients with diabetes receiving the same message from dietitians and nurses? [SEP] are patients with diabetes receiving the same message from dietitians and nurses? the purpose of this study was to determine if registered dietitian (rd) and registered nurse (rn) certified diabetes educators (cdes) provide similar recommendations regarding carbohydrates and dietary supplements to individuals with diabetes. a survey was mailed to cdes in the southern united states. participants were asked to indicate their recommendations for use of carbohydrates, fiber, artificial sweeteners, and 12 selected dietary and herbal supplements when counseling individuals with diabetes. the survey sample consisted of 366 cdes: 207 were rns and 159 were rds. no statistically significant differences were found between rns and rds in typical carbohydrate recommendations for treatment of diabetes. however, rds were more likely than rns to make recommendations for fiber intake or use of the glycemic index. a significant difference also was found in the treatment of hypoglycemia: rns were more likely than rds to recommend consuming a carbohydrate source with protein to treat hypoglycemia. although some differences existed, rd and rn cdes are making similar overall recommendations in the treatment of individuals with diabetes.
Preparing patients at high risk of falls for discharge home after rehabilitation: Do we meet the guidelines? [SEP] preparing patients at high risk of falls for discharge home after rehabilitation: do we meet the guidelines? to determine whether rehabilitation inpatients at high risk of falls receive adequate falls risk assessment, management and handover on discharge as per australian best practice guidelines. medical records of 121 people who received inpatient rehabilitation were retrospectively screened; records of 50 people discharged home and at high falls risk (fall in last 12 months, fall preceding/during admission) were audited. data extracted included falls risk identification during rehabilitation and in discharge documentation; falls risk factors assessed; and fall prevention strategies implemented. discharge documentation correctly identified falls risk for just nine of the 50 people. patients at high falls risk had a median of 8.0 (interquartile range 6-10) of 17 risk factors. common strategies were mobility (n = 48), strength (n = 44) and personal activity of daily living training (n = 43). there was little evidence that people at high risk of falls received systematic falls risk assessment during rehabilitation. however, failure to assess some risk factors might have limited fall prevention strategies offered. failure to adequately address risks during hospitalization could contribute to falls post-discharge.
Longer term quality of life and outcome in stroke patients: is the Barthel index alone an adequate measure of outcome? [SEP] 
Do women residents delay childbearing due to perceived career threats? [SEP] do women residents delay childbearing due to perceived career threats? to assess gender differences among residents regarding their plans to have children during residency and determine the most influential reasons for these differences. using the health belief model as a framework, the authors created an instrument to survey 424 residents from 11 residency programs at three academic medical institutions about their intentions to have children during residency. the authors developed a scale to assess the perceived career threats of having children during residency, evaluated its psychometric properties, and calculated the effect of the mediators. forty-one percent of men versus 27% of women planned to have children during residency (p = .01). the instrument measured four career threats-extended training, loss of fellowship positions, pregnancy complications, and interference with career plans-on a five-point likert scale. compared with men, women had higher scores for each item and a higher mean score (2.9 versus 2.1, p = .001), signifying greater belief in the potential of pregnancy to threaten careers. after adjusting for age, institution, postgraduate year, and knowledge of parental leave policies, women were less likely to plan to have children during residency (odds ratio 0.46 [95% confidence interval 0.25-0.84]). in mediation analysis, threats to career explained 67% of the gender variance. women residents intentionally postpone pregnancy because of perceived threats to their careers.
Do general practitioner hospitals reduce the utilisation of general hospital beds? [SEP] lower ambulatory care availability and greater hospital capacity are associated with higher hospital case volumes. ambulatory care utilization inversely correlates with hospital usage, emphasizing the need to integrate ambulatory sector data into hospital planning. linking 2021 data from the federal and state statistical offices, inkar data and health insurance claims data in germany at the district level, a multiple linear regression model assessed the association between case counts in hospitals or office-based practices per 10,000 residents and distance to the nearest general practitioner (gp), as well as hospital bed and gp density. multiple linear regression revealed that greater gp distance, fewer gps and more hospital beds were linked to more hospital cases, while office-based cases rose with shorter gp distance. global moran's i confirmed spatial clustering, and gwr revealed heterogeneous effects of primary-care access on hospital admissions, whereas bed capacity uniformly increased hospital cases and shorter gp distances consistently predicted more office visits across germany. our findings align with research showing supply-induced demand of hospital cases and emphasize the need for coordinated hospital and ambulatory care planning to improve access, reduce unnecessary hospital admissions, and optimize patient outcomes. finally, we find that the local health system played a relevant role in reducing fatalities with a higher number of general practitioners and hospital beds per capita being associated with a lower mortality. the following health care inputs were used in the analysis: density of general practitioners, specialists and nurses, as well as density of hospital beds. causes are multiple: input and in particular lack of access to lab test and imaging for general practitioners, throughput and unnecessary or time-consuming tasks, and output, in particular the availability of hospital beds for unscheduled patients. myths versus facts in emergency department overcrowding and hospital access block.
Some aspects of social exclusion: do they influence suicide mortality? [SEP] demographics and data on loneliness, srd, symptomatic distress, suicidal ideation, and role functioning, as well as treatment duration, and mortality, were collected. some aspects of social exclusion: do they influence suicide mortality? the current study is aimed to assess the relationship between the 'economic/employment' and 'social/welfare' dimensions of social exclusion and suicide mortality in europe. suicide mortality rates among both males and females are influenced negatively by 'economic/employment' and 'social/welfare' dimensions. both 'economic/employment' and 'social/welfare' dimensions of social exclusion significantly influence suicide mortality among males. the influence of 'economic/employment' and 'social/welfare' dimensions of social exclusion on female suicide mortality is controversial. social exclusion might be considered as a risk factor for suicide mortality in europe. also in old age, belonging to the lower socioeconomic stratum - as a macrosocial factor - correlates with increased rates for psychiatric morbidity as a whole, as it does with poor physical health and increased mortality. it can be assumed that to a large part, unfavourable socioeconomic conditions mainly have an indirect impact on psychiatric morbidity by way of higher rates of those somatic diseases leading to psychiatric sequelae, e.g. events of losses and social isolation in a sense of experienced loneliness accompanied by a lack of contact enlarge the risk of developing psychiatric disturbances, in particular depressive syndromes, and also the risk of somatic diseases and suicides.
Does parity increase insulin resistance during pregnancy? [SEP] prolactin in high-metabolic risk pregnancies: associations with maternal obesity and metabolic health. low prolactin levels during pregnancy have been linked to adverse maternal metabolic health. we examined pregnancy prolactin levels in relation to maternal metabolic characteristics within an ethnically diverse cohort at high metabolic risk. women with obesity (bmi ≥30 kg/m maternal metabolic status, particularly higher bmi before and during early pregnancy, was associated with lower prolactin levels in early pregnancy and across gestation, and a smaller prolactin increase over pregnancy. soybean oil and leucine in late gestation and lactation improve maternal and offspring lipid metabolism and insulin sensitivity: insights from pig model. sixty-eight multiparous sows (parities 3 to 5, 228.44 ± 8.19 kg) were randomly divided into four groups from the 107th day of gestation to the 21st day of lactation ( supplementing soybean oil during late pregnancy and lactation significantly enhanced insulin sensitivity ( our study provides evidence that dietary supplementation with soybean oil and leucine affects offspring growth by modulating lipid metabolism and insulin sensitivity in sows and pigs, and by altering intestinal microbiota. in a multivariable linear regression adjusting for age, body mass index (bmi), gestational age at sampling, and parity, gdm was associated with higher ca-i (β = 3.1, 95% confidence interval [ci]: 1.6-4.6) and ca-ii (β = 2.4, 1.1-3.7), higher mda (β = 0.27 per 0.1-unit) and tos (β = 4.1 per unit), and lower tac (β = -0.22 per 0.1-unit; all p ≤ 0.004). association of metabolic score for insulin resistance and preeclampsia: a multicenter cohort study. insulin resistance during pregnancy, while physiologically adaptive to enhance fetal nutrient supply, becomes pathological when excessive, contributing to low birth weight (lbw). once gestational diabetes, always gestational diabetes?
Informed consent for total hip arthroplasty: does a written information sheet improve recall by patients? [SEP] informed consent for total hip arthroplasty: does a written information sheet improve recall by patients? to ascertain whether a written information sheet is acceptable to patients and improves recall of the consent interview. prospective randomised controlled study using questionnaires, comparing a group of patients given information in a written sheet with appropriate explanation to a group given verbal information alone. a specialist orthopaedic surgery unit. the test group was 126 patients undergoing revision or primary total hip arthroplasty; 65 patients were given information verbally, 61 patients were given written information. patients' recall of information given, tested with a questionnaire completed on admission (mean of 18 days later). the patients receiving written information scored significantly higher (48% correct answers) than the patients receiving verbal information (38% correct answers). written information sheets contribute to the process of informed consent. as patients' recall of information is generally poor, the sheets may also be useful medicolegally, as a permanent record of what was discussed.
Is gastric cancer different in Korea and the United States? [SEP] migration-associated variation in gastric cancer risk in the united states: implications for risk stratification. gastric cancer incidence remained consistently higher among asian populations than among non-hispanic whites, with age-adjusted incidence ranging from ~3.6-4.7 per 100,000 in non-hispanic whites versus 12-26 per 100,000 in korean populations. these findings demonstrate that migration-associated variation in gastric cancer risk remains detectable and prevention-relevant in contemporary u.s. populations, supporting migration-informed approaches to risk stratification and prevention. racial/ethnic and geographic differences in second primary cancers in stomach cancer survivors: a comparative study of u.s. and south korea. spc risk and outcomes in stomach cancer survivors vary by race/ethnicity and country, particularly within asian subgroups. this study examined recent international trends in age-standardized mortality for all cancers combined and major cancer types, comparing japan with selected countries (australia, canada, the republic of korea (korea), the united kingdom, and the united states of america) using the latest available national data (from 1980 through the early 2020s). the decrease in stomach cancer is also one of japan's progressive movements, but comparisons with korea indicate challenges remain in secondary prevention. gastric cancer remains one of the leading causes of cancer-related deaths worldwide, necessitating a rapid intraoperative method to determine the presence or absence of malignancy. dyspepsia care as a missed gateway to gastric cancer prevention in high-risk u.s. in the united states, where several high-risk populations carry disproportionately elevated gastric cancer risk, a tailored, ethnicity- and life-course-informed approach is warranted.
Discharging patients earlier from Winnipeg hospitals: does it adversely affect quality of care? [SEP] a population-based approach was used to monitor impact of hospital bed closures in winnipeg, manitoba. access to hospital services was not adversely affected: the reduction in beds resulted in increases in outpatient surgery and earlier discharges. quality of care, as measured by mortality within 3 months of admission, readmission rates within 30 days of discharge, and increased contact with physicians within 30 days of discharge, did not change. the health status of the winnipeg population, measured by premature mortality, did not change. discharging patients earlier from winnipeg hospitals: does it adversely affect quality of care? to determine whether decreasing lengths of stay over time for selected diagnostic categories were associated with increased hospital readmission rates and mean number of physician visits after discharge. the seven large (125 beds or more) acute care hospitals in winnipeg. manitoba residents admitted to any one of the seven hospitals because acute myocardial infarction (ami), bronchitis or asthma, transurethral prostatectomy (turp) and uterine or adnexal procedures for nonmalignant disease during the fiscal years 1989-90 to 1992-93. patients from out of province, those who died in hospital, those with excessively long stays (more than 60 days) and those who were transferred to or from another institution were excluded. improving hospital efficiency by shortening length of stay does not appear to result in increased rates of readmission or numbers of physician visits within 30 days after discharge from hospital.
Does the distribution of health care benefits in Kenya meet the principles of universal coverage? [SEP] does the distribution of health care benefits in kenya meet the principles of universal coverage? the 58th world health assembly called for all health systems to move towards universal coverage where everyone has access to key promotive, preventive, curative and rehabilitative health interventions at an affordable cost. universal coverage involves ensuring that health care benefits are distributed on the basis of need for care and not on ability to pay. the distribution of health care benefits is therefore an important policy question, which health systems should address. the aim of this study is to assess the distribution of health care benefits in the kenyan health system, compare changes over two time periods and demonstrate the extent to which the distribution meets the principles of universal coverage. a comprehensive analysis of the entire health system is conducted including the public sector, private-not-for-profit and private-for-profit sectors. larger pro-rich disparities were recorded for inpatient compared to outpatient benefits at the hospital level, but primary health care services were pro-poor. the principles of universal coverage require that all should benefit from health care according to need. the kenyan health sector is clearly inequitable and benefits are not distributed on the basis of need. deliberate efforts should be directed to restructuring the kenyan health system to address access barriers and ensure that all kenyans benefit from health care when they need it.
Cholesterol screening in school children: is family history reliable to choose the ones to screen? [SEP] cholesterol screening in school children: is family history reliable to choose the ones to screen? as the basis of atherosclerotic heart disease begins at early childhood, we aim to find out which children should be tested for hypercholesterolemia, what the high cholesterol level in children is and what cautions should be taken to avoid atherosclerosis. demographic properties of the study group and their families were determined and the serum lipid levels of the subjects were obtained. the relation between these demographic properties and lipid levels were investigated. in 135 of the subjects' serum cholesterol level was >or=200 mg/dl and in 83 subjects serum ldl-cholesterol level was >or=130 mg/dl. despite 64.4% of the subjects reported a family history of hyperlipidemia, no relations between family history and serum lipid levels were found. we suggest that regardless of family history, all children over 5 years should be screened for hyperlipidemia. education about hyperlipidemia and precautions for its complications should be given to both children and families. the best and easiest way to reach children is to screen them at schools. school is also a good place for education of children about hyperlipidemia and risk factors.
Bony defects in chronic anterior posttraumatic dislocation of the shoulder: Is there a correlation between humeral and glenoidal lesions? [SEP] 
Does ambulatory process of care predict health-related quality of life outcomes for patients with chronic disease? [SEP] as hypothesised, care coordination patient and providers scores significantly correlated with questions about quality of care, treatment involvement, reported health, clinics' organisational readiness, and external care coordination capacity. outcomes included 1-year patient satisfaction and quality of life (qol), dialysis modality switching, and hospitalizations and mortality (through december 2004). does ambulatory process of care predict health-related quality of life outcomes for patients with chronic disease? we used empirical data from managed care patients enrolled in west coast physician organizations to test the hypothesis that observed changes in health-related quality of life across a 2.5-year window reflecting process of care. the use of instrumental variables allowed us to demonstrate a significant relationship between better ambulatory process of care and better health-related quality of life. this finding underscores the importance of efforts to improve the process of care. the prospective effect of access to medical care on health-related quality-of-life outcomes in patients with symptomatic hiv disease. this study examined the prospective effect of reported access to medical care on health-related quality-of-life outcomes in patients with symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) disease. participants were hiv-infected patients who were receiving ambulatory and/or hospital care at one county-run municipal and one veterans administration hospital in metropolitan los angeles and were interviewed about access to medical care (using a reliable 9-item scale assessing affordability, availability, and convenience of medical care). increasing access to care for poor public hospital patients with hiv infection may help to improve health-related quality-of-life outcomes among selected persons with advanced disease.
Is first-line single-agent mitoxantrone in the treatment of high-risk metastatic breast cancer patients as effective as combination chemotherapy? [SEP] is first-line single-agent mitoxantrone in the treatment of high-risk metastatic breast cancer patients as effective as combination chemotherapy? to determine whether patients with high-risk metastatic breast cancer draw benefit from combination chemotherapy as first-line treatment. a total of 260 women with measurable metastatic breast cancer fulfilling high-risk criteria, previously untreated with chemotherapy for their metastatic disease, were randomized to receive either mitoxantrone 12 mg/m(2) or the combination of fluorouracil 500 mg/m(2), epirubicin 50 mg/m(2) and cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m(2) (fec) every 3 weeks. treatment was continued until complete remission plus two cycles, or until disease progression. second-line treatment was vindesine, mitomycin and prednisolone. after recruitment from 1992 to 1997 and observation from 1997 to 1999, the final evaluation showed that single-agent treatment with mitoxantrone does not differ significantly from combination treatment with fec in terms of response, objective remission rate, remission duration, time to response, time to best response, time to progression or overall survival. there was, however, a significant difference in gain from treatment using a modified brunner's score favoring the single-agent treatment arm. there was no evidence that any subgroup would fare better with combination treatment. no significant difference was detected between the treatment with mitoxantrone as a single agent and the combination of low-dose fec in terms of response or survival; therefore, the imperative of the necessity of first-line combination chemotherapy for patients with high-risk metastatic breast cancer may be questioned. since toxicity and quality of life score favored the single-agent mitoxantrone treatment arm, this treatment may be offered to patients preferring quality of life to a potential small prolongation of survival.
Are patients with Werlhof's disease at increased risk for bleeding complications when undergoing cardiac surgery? [SEP] patients with pre-existing coagulopathies who undergo surgical interventions are at increased risk for bleeding complications. in this review, cases of cardiac surgeries in patients with certain pre-existing coagulopathies are summarized, which could shed a light on future managements of such patients undergoing cardiac procedures with cpb. patients suffering from idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura undergoing cardiac surgery with extracorporeal circulation may be at increased risk for postoperative bleeding complications. are patients with werlhof's disease at increased risk for bleeding complications when undergoing cardiac surgery? it is generally assumed, that patients with werlhof's disease (wd) are at increased risk for bleeding complications when undergoing cardiac surgery with extracorporeal circulation. patients with wd may possibly undergo cardiac surgery without a markedly enhanced risk for bleeding complications despite a more than usual transfusion requirement and significantly lower platelet counts perioperatively. preoperative immunoglobulin treatment in patients with werlhof's disease undergoing cardiac operation. patients with werlhof's disease and undergoing a cardiac surgical procedure with cardiopulmonary bypass are at increased risk for bleeding complications. between may 1995 and july 1998, 10 patients with werlhof's disease underwent a cardiac surgical procedure with cardiopulmonary bypass in our department. our data demonstrate that immunoglobulin treatment of patients with werlhof's disease and mean platelet counts of less than 80x10(9)/l significantly augments platelet counts preoperatively.
Is neck pain associated with worse health-related quality of life 6 months later? [SEP] impact of axial neck pain on quality of life after laminoplasty. is neck pain associated with worse health-related quality of life 6 months later? current evidence suggests that neck pain is negatively associated with health-related quality of life (hrqol). the purpose of this study was to investigate the association between increasing grades of neck pain severity and hrqol 6 months later. the neck pain trajectories over 6 months were no or mild neck pain, improving neck pain, worsening neck pain, and persistent neck pain. we found an exposure-response relationship between neck pain and physical hrqol after adjusting for age, education, arthritis, low back pain, and depressive symptomatology. compared with participants without neck pain at baseline, those with mild (β=-1.53, 95% confidence interval [ci]=-2.83, -0.24), intense (β=-3.60, 95% ci=-5.76, -1.44), or disabling (β=-8.55, 95% ci=-11.68, -5.42) neck pain had worse physical hrqol 6 months later. a worsening course of neck pain and persistent neck pain were associated with worse physical hrqol. our analysis suggests that neck pain may be a contributor of future poor physical hrqol in the population. is low back pain associated with worse health-related quality of life 6 months later?
Does oral α-galactosidase relieve irritable bowel symptoms? [SEP] does oral α-galactosidase relieve irritable bowel symptoms? abdominal bloating is reported by a majority of irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) patients. excess colonic fermentation may cause gaseous symptoms. several foodstuffs contain oligosaccharides with an α-galactosidic linkage that is resistant to mammalian hydrolases. assisted hydrolysis by exogenous α-galactosidase enzyme (ag) could offer a way of controlling ibs symptoms by reducing colonic fermentation and gas production. the aim of this study was to assess the effect of ag on symptom severity and quality of life in ibs patients with abdominal bloating or flatulence. a total of 125 subjects with ibs received ag or placebo at meals for 12 weeks. ibs-symptom severity score (ibs-sss) and quality of life (qol) were assessed at baseline, during the treatment and at 4-week follow-up. we found no evidence to support the use of ag routinely in ibs patients. gastrointestinal (gi) side effects may be a coincidence in this study, but irritation of gi tract by ag administration cannot be excluded.
Is there a connection between sublingual varices and hypertension? [SEP] 
Can CT predict the level of CSF block in tuberculous hydrocephalus? [SEP] can ct predict the level of csf block in tuberculous hydrocephalus? treatment of obstructive hydrocephalus in children with tuberculous meningitis (tbm) depends on the level of the cerebrospinal fluid (csf) block. air-encephalography is regarded as the gold standard for differentiating communicating and non-communicating hydrocephalus. since air-encephalography involves a lumbar puncture, it carries the risk of cerebral herniation. the aim of this study was to determine whether communicating and non-communicating hydrocephalus in tbm can be differentiated by means of cranial computerised tomography (ct). a number of ct indices were measured in 50 children with communicating and 34 children with non-communicating hydrocephalus according to air-encephalographic findings. the only ct finding that correlated with the type of hydrocephalus was the shape of the third ventricle. significantly more children with non-communicating hydrocephalus had a rounded third ventricle than those with communicating hydrocephalus. ct is therefore not useful in determining the level of csf block in tbm. air-encephalography remains the most reliable way of determining the level of csf obstruction.
MR arthrography of the shoulder: do we need local anesthesia? [SEP] mr arthrography of the shoulder: do we need local anesthesia? to assess pain intensity with and without subcutaneous local anesthesia prior to intraarticular administration of contrast medium for magnetic resonance arthrography (mra) of the shoulder. there were 249 outpatients (178 men and 71 women; mean age, 44.4 years ± 14.6; range, 15-79) who underwent mra and were enrolled in this study. patients were excluded if they had received surgery of the shoulder before mra, had undergone repeated mra of the same shoulder, and/or had undergone mra of both shoulders on the same day. patients in group a (n=61) received skin infiltration with local anesthesia. patients in control group b (n=92) and group c (n=96) did not receive local anesthesia. pain levels were immediately assessed after the injection for mra using a horizontal visual analog scale (vas) that ranged from 0 to 10. patients who received local anesthesia (group a) showed a mean pain level on the vas of 2.6 ± 2.3. in patients who did not receive local anesthetics (groups b and c), a mean pain level on the vas of 2.6 ± 2.2 and 2.7 ± 2.4 were detected, respectively. local anesthesia is not required to lower a patient's pain intensity when applying intra-articular contrast media for mr arthrography of the shoulder.
Does cognitive function predict frequency compressed speech recognition in listeners with normal hearing and normal cognition? [SEP] speech recognition in quiet and in noise were measured, unaided and aided after fitting with each compression setting. training generalization was evaluated using several temporal processing measures and sentence recognition tests that included time-compressed and reverberant speech stimuli. generalization was observed in significant improvement in rate discrimination of untrained frequencies (200 and 400 hz) and in correlations between performance changes in rate discrimination and sentence recognition of reverberant speech. auditory models of suprathreshold distortion and speech intelligibility in persons with impaired hearing. auditory-processing models incorporating individualized measures of auditory distortion, along with audiometric thresholds, could provide a more complete understanding of speech-reception deficits by hi individuals. psychophysical data on spectral and temporal acuity were incorporated into individualized auditory-processing models consisting of three stages: a peripheral stage, customized to reflect individual audiograms and spectral and temporal acuity; a cortical stage, which extracts spectral and temporal modulations relevant to speech; and an evaluation stage, which predicts speech-recognition performance by comparing the modulation content of clean and noisy speech. does cognitive function predict frequency compressed speech recognition in listeners with normal hearing and normal cognition? the aim was to investigate the relationship between cognitive ability and frequency compressed speech recognition in listeners with normal hearing and normal cognition. there was a statistically significant relationship between speech recognition and cognition for the unprocessed condition but not for the frequency-compressed conditions. the relationship between cognitive functioning and recognition of frequency compressed speech-in-noise was not statistically significant.
Should cavitation in proximal surfaces be reported in cone beam computed tomography examination? [SEP] should cavitation in proximal surfaces be reported in cone beam computed tomography examination? a clinical study was done to assess the clinical diagnostic accuracy of cone beam computed tomography (cbct) in detecting proximal cavitated carious lesions in order to determine whether cavitation should be reported when a cbct examination is available. 79 adjacent proximal surfaces without restorations in permanent teeth were examined. patients suspected to have carious lesions after a visual clinical and a bitewing examination participated in a cbct examination (kodak 9000 3d, 5 × 3.7 cm field of view, voxel size 0.07 mm). radiographic assessment recording lesions with or without cavitation was performed by two observers in bitewings and cbct sections. orthodontic separators were placed interdentally between two lesion-suspected surfaces. the separator was removed after 3 days and the surfaces recorded as cavitated (yes/no), i.e. for both observers, sensitivity was significantly higher for cbct than for bitewings (average difference 33%, p < 0.001) while specificity was not significantly different between the methods (p = 0.19). the overall accuracy was also significantly higher for cbct (p < 0.001). cbct was more accurate in detecting cavitation in proximal surfaces than bitewing radiographs; therefore a cbct examination performed for other clinical applications should also be assessed for proximal surface cavities in teeth without restorations, and when detected, this pathology must be part of the dentist's report.
Do supervised colorectal trainees differ from consultants in terms of quality of TME surgery? [SEP] do supervised colorectal trainees differ from consultants in terms of quality of tme surgery? the quality of surgical excision is held to be a major determinant of outcome following surgery for rectal cancer. macroscopic examination of the excised mesorectum allows for reproducible assessment of the quality of surgery. we aimed to determine whether quality of excision undertaken by colorectal trainees under supervision was comparable with that performed by consultants, as measured using mesorectal grades. the outcome (quality of mesorectal excision and secondary outcomes including local recurrence and overall recurrence) of operations performed by consultants was compared with that of trainees. eighty-nine operations were performed by consultants and 41 by senior colorectal trainees with consultant supervision. forty-four patients (49%) had good mesorectum when operated by consultants in comparison with 17 (41.5%) by the trainees. there was no statistically significant difference (p = 0.717) between the two groups in terms of quality of mesorectum excised after potentially curative resection. furthermore, there were seven local recurrences in patients operated by consultants (7.8%) when compared with four in the trainee group (9.5%) and once again there was no statistical significance between the two groups (p = 0.719). we conclude that the quality of rectal cancer excision, as defined by mesorectal grades, achieved by supervised colorectal trainees is comparable with that achieved by consultants.
Affect-regulated exercise intensity: does training at an intensity that feels 'good' improve physical health? [SEP] 
Do socioeconomic differences in mortality persist after retirement? [SEP] occupational differences in mortality and life expectancy persist after retirement and throughout life. there are substantial differences in remaining life expectancy at higher ages between occupational groups. the scope of this paper is the extent to which occupational differences in remaining life expectancy persist after retirement, which would suggest that occupational exposures alone are not likely to explain all the difference. comparing the older retired group with the younger pre-retirement group, the differentials in mortality remained but were less pronounced. do socioeconomic differences in mortality persist after retirement? a non-work based measure of socioeconomic status (car ownership) predicted mortality less well than employment grade before retirement but its ability to predict mortality declined less after retirement. using a relative index of inequality that was sensitive to the distribution among socioeconomic groups showed employment grade and car ownership to have independent associations with mortality that were of equal magnitude after retirement. socioeconomic differences in mortality persist beyond retirement age and in magnitude increase with age. social differentials in mortality based on an occupational status measure seem to decrease to a greater degree after retirement than those based on a non-work measure. although adjustment for social class strengthened the association between death from causes other than cancer and period since recruitment (chi 2 for trend = 18.8, p less than 0.001), simultaneous adjustment for all confounding factors considered (age at death, sex, calendar period of death, geographical location of the workforce, and social class) produced results broadly similar to those obtained from the unadjusted analyses for both cause of death categories.
Can emergency physicians accurately and reliably assess acute vertigo in the emergency department? [SEP] can emergency physicians accurately and reliably assess acute vertigo in the emergency department? to validate a clinical diagnostic tool, used by emergency physicians (eps), to diagnose the central cause of patients presenting with vertigo, and to determine interrater reliability of this tool. a convenience sample of adult patients presenting to a single academic ed with isolated vertigo (i.e. vertigo without other neurological deficits) was prospectively evaluated with standing (spontaneousnystagmus, direction, head impulse test, standing) by five trained eps. the local standard practice, senior audiologist evaluation corroborated by neuroimaging when deemed appropriate, was considered the reference standard. on the first 30 patients, inter-observer agreement among eps was also assessed. five eps with limited experience in nystagmus assessment volunteered to participate in the present study enrolling 98 patients. central acute vertigo was suspected in 16 (16.3%) patients. there were 13 true positives, three false positives, 81 true negatives and one false negative, with a high sensitivity (92.9%, 95% ci 70-100%) and specificity (96.4%, 95% ci 93-38%) for central acute vertigo according to senior audiologist evaluation. in the hands of eps, standing showed a good inter-observer agreement and accuracy validated against the local standard of care.
Orthostatic myoclonus: an underrecognized cause of unsteadiness? [SEP] orthostatic myoclonus: an underrecognized cause of unsteadiness? recently, orthostatic myoclonus (om) has been suggested as a cause of gait impairment and unsteadiness in neurodegenerative diseases. the aim of this study was to investigate the frequency of orthostatic myoclonus, its clinical characteristics and the underlying associated neurological disorders. a retrospective analysis of clinical data and electromyogram surface recordings from subjects with unexplained unsteadiness/gait impairment was performed. all patients with om complained about unsteadiness during orthostatism and/or during gait. orthostatic myoclonus is often underdiagnosed and can be considered a possible cause of unsteadiness in subjects with neurodegenerative diseases. myoclonus or tremor in orthostatism: an under-recognized cause of unsteadiness in parkinson's disease. patients with parkinson's disease (pd) often complain of unsteadiness. the remaining 3 patients had orthostatic myoclonus, a condition that has not previously been reported in pd. these observations show the usefulness of neurophysiological investigations for diagnosing and treating unexplained unsteadiness in parkinson's disease.
Contrast-enhanced MR imaging of hand and finger joints in patients with early rheumatoid arthritis: do we really need a full dose of gadobenate dimeglumine for assessing synovial enhancement at 3 T? [SEP] 
Does laparoscopic cholecystectomy influence peri-sinusoidal cell activity? [SEP] does laparoscopic cholecystectomy influence peri-sinusoidal cell activity? to investigate the influence of laparoscopic procedures on perisinusoidal cell function. in 31 patients who underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy for symptomatic cholelithiasis, the serum levels of beta-n-acetyl hexosaminidase (beta-nah) and hyaluronic acid (ha) were measured. six female patients, who underwent other laparoscopic procedures, not involving the hepatobiliary system, served as controls. ha serum levels increased significantly in both study and control groups, while beta-nah serum levels remained within normal values. post-operative ast and alt serum levels increased significantly only in the study group. no elevation of serum alp was noted in any of our patients, and post-operative bilirubin levels did not increase in patients with normal pre-operative levels. laparoscopic procedures caused detectable damage to kupffer and endothelial cells as reflected by elevation of post-operative ha serum levels. the damage to the liver hepatocytes and perisinusoidal cells has no clinical significance and the laparoscopic procedure itself is the probable cause of the kupffer and endothelial cells damage, while other mechanisms caused damage to the hepatocytes.
Does case-mix based reimbursement stimulate the development of process-oriented care delivery? [SEP] does case-mix based reimbursement stimulate the development of process-oriented care delivery? reimbursement based on the total care of a patient during an acute episode of illness is believed to stimulate management and clinicians to reduce quality problems like waiting times and poor coordination of care delivery. although many studies already show that this kind of case-mix based reimbursement leads to more efficiency, it remains unclear whether care coordination improved as well. this study aims to explore whether case-mix based reimbursement stimulates development of care coordination by the use of care programmes, and a process-oriented way of working. data for this study were gathered during the winter of 2007/2008 in a survey involving all dutch hospitals. descriptive and structural equation modelling (sem) analyses were conducted. sem reveals that adoption of the case-mix reimbursement within hospitals' budgeting processes stimulates hospitals to establish care programmes by the use of process-oriented performance measures. however, the implementation of care programmes is not (yet) accompanied by a change in focus from function (the delivery of independent care activities) to process (the delivery of care activities as being connected to a chain of interdependent care activities). this study demonstrates that hospital management can stimulate the development of care programmes by the adoption of case-mix reimbursement within hospitals' budgeting processes. future research is recommended to confirm this finding and to determine whether the establishment of care programmes will in time indeed lead to a more process-oriented view of professionals.
Risky sexual behavior among college students With ADHD: is the mother-child relationship protective? [SEP] 
Rotator cuff tear--an occupational disease? [SEP] [rotator cuff tear--an occupational disease? an epidemiological analysis]. in literature there are only few data which describe the influence of occupation on the development of rotator cuff disease. in a retrospective study, 760 open rotator cuff repairs were analysed and related to the profession and occupational load. exclusion criteria were traumatic tears and sports injuries. all male persons were statistically analysed and the data compared with occupational patterns of the region, obtained from the federal statistical state office. rotator cuff repairs were performed in 472 males who had no evidence for a traumatic origin. after statistical analysis (p < 0.001) we found significantly more patients working in agriculture and forestry (6.38% versus 1.07% in bavaria) and in the building industry (35.11% versus 13.40% in bavaria). our data suggest that working exposure increases the risk or leads to the clinical manifestation of rotator cuff tears. although a detailed analysis of individual physical exposure is not available yet, the statistical results indicate that rotator cuff tears must be taken into consideration as a result of ergonomic exposure.
Is there a need for pelvic CT scan in cases of renal cell carcinoma? [SEP] 
Prognostic factors for cervical spondylotic amyotrophy: are signs of spinal cord involvement associated with the neurological prognosis? [SEP] cervical spondylotic amyotrophy: a systematic review. cervical spondylotic amyotrophy (csa) is characterized by upper limb muscle weakness and atrophy, without sensory deficits. diagnosis requires documentation of muscle atrophy, without significant sensory deficits, supported by careful neurological, radiological and neurophysiological assessments, with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, parsonage-turner syndrome, rotator cuff tear and hirayama disease being the principle differential diagnoses. cervical paraspinal muscle atrophy rates following laminoplasty and laminectomy with fusion for cervical spondylotic myelopathy. cervical spondylotic myelopathy (csm) is a disorder that can cause neurologic deterioration. studies on paraspinal muscular atrophy (pma) in the lumbar spine have shown that these changes are caused by several perioperative factors. it is possible that pma in the cervical spine could behave similarly. atrophy rate was obtained and reported as percentage change in cross-sectional area of the cervical paraspinal muscles from preoperative to postoperative imaging. prognostic factors for cervical spondylotic amyotrophy: are signs of spinal cord involvement associated with the neurological prognosis? the purpose of this study was to clarify the prognostic factors for cervical spondylotic amyotrophy (csa).
Is Bare-Metal Stent Implantation Still Justifiable in High Bleeding Risk Patients Undergoing Percutaneous Coronary Intervention? [SEP] is bare-metal stent implantation still justifiable in high bleeding risk patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention? this study sought to investigate the ischemic and bleeding outcomes of patients fulfilling high bleeding risk (hbr) criteria who were randomized to zotarolimus-eluting endeavor sprint stent (e-zes) or bare-metal stent (bms) implantation followed by an abbreviated dual antiplatelet therapy (dapt) duration for stable or unstable coronary artery disease. des instead of bms use remains controversial in hbr patients, in whom long-term dapt poses safety concerns. the zeus (zotarolimus-eluting endeavor sprint stent in uncertain des candidates) is a multinational, randomized single-blinded trial that randomized among others, in a stratified manner, 828 patients fulfilling pre-defined clinical or biochemical hbr criteria-including advanced age, indication to oral anticoagulants or other pro-hemorrhagic medications, history of bleeding and known anemia-to receive e-zes or bms followed by a protocol-mandated 30-day dapt regimen. the primary endpoint of the study was the 12-month major adverse cardiovascular event rate, consisting of death, myocardial infarction, or target vessel revascularization. compared with patients without, those with 1 or more hbr criteria had worse outcomes, owing to higher ischemic and bleeding risks. among hbr patients, major adverse cardiovascular events occurred in 22.6% of the e-zes and 29% of the bms patients (hazard ratio: 0.75; 95% confidence interval: 0.57 to 0.98; p = 0.033), driven by lower myocardial infarction (3.5% vs. 10.4%; p < 0.001) and target vessel revascularization (5.9% vs. 11.4%; p = 0.005) rates in the e-zes arm. the composite of definite or probable stent thrombosis was significantly reduced in e-zes recipients, whereas bleeding events did not differ between stent groups. among hbr patients with stable or unstable coronary artery disease, e-zes implantation provides superior efficacy and safety as compared with conventional bms. (zotarolimus-eluting endeavor sprint stent in uncertain des candidates [zeus]; nct01385319).
Ovarian torsion in children: is oophorectomy necessary? [SEP] the right ovarian tissue was not viable due to torsion and an oophorectomy was necessary. ovarian torsion in the pediatric population: predictive factors for ovarian-sparing surgery-an international retrospective multicenter study and a systematic review. ovarian torsion (ot) in pediatric age is a challenging condition to diagnose and treat. ovarian sparing surgery in mature ovarian teratomas in children: a 20-year single-center experience. ovarian torsion in children: is oophorectomy necessary? most pediatric surgeons perform oophorectomy in girls presenting with ovarian torsion in which the ovary appears necrotic. all children with ovarian torsion on the gynecology and general surgery services between 1988 and 2002 were reviewed. detorsion is the procedure of choice for most cases of ovarian torsion in children. laparotomy showed right ovarian torsion with necrosis of a cyst requiring ovariectomy. ovariectomy was necessary because laparotomy showed right ovarian torsion with necrosis of a cyst.
Does minimal access major surgery in the newborn hurt less? [SEP] does minimal access major surgery in the newborn hurt less? an evaluation of cumulative opioid doses. minimal access surgery (mas) in adults is associated with less postoperative pain in comparison to conventional 'open' surgery. it is not known whether this holds true for neonates as well. less pain would imply that opioid consumption can be reduced, which has a beneficial effect on morbidity. to evaluate potential differences in' opioid consumption between neonates undergoing thoracoscopic minimal access surgery or conventional surgery of esophageal atresia (ea) and congenital diaphragmatic hernia (cdh). cumulative opioid doses at 12, 24, 48 h and 7 days postoperatively were compared between groups with the mann-whitney test. for example at 24 h postoperative for cdh patients cumulative opioid doses were [0.84(0.61-1.83) mas vs. 1.06(0.60-1.36) p=1.0] controls, for ea patients at 24 h the cumulative opioid doses were [0.48(0.30-0.75) mas vs. 0.49(0.35-0.79) p=0.83] controls. this held true for the postoperative pain scores as well. minimal access surgery for the repair of esophageal atresia or congenital diaphragmatic hernia is not associated with less cumulative opioid doses.
Are high flow nasal cannulae noisier than bubble CPAP for preterm infants? [SEP] are high flow nasal cannulae noisier than bubble cpap for preterm infants? noise exposure in the neonatal intensive care unit is believed to be a risk factor for hearing loss in preterm neonates. continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) devices exceed recommended noise levels. high flow nasal cannulae (hfnc) are an increasingly popular alternative to cpap for treating preterm infants, but there are no in vivo studies assessing noise production by hfnc. to study whether hfnc are noisier than bubble cpap (bcpap) for preterm infants. an observational study of preterm infants receiving hfnc or bcpap. a total of 21 hfnc and 13 bcpap noise measurements were performed in 21 infants. there was no evidence of a difference in average noise levels measured at the eam: mean difference (95% ci) of -1.6 (-4.0 to 0.9) dba for hfnc compared to bcpap. noise increased with increasing bcpap gas flow (p=0.007), but not with increasing set pressure. at the gas flows studied, hfnc are not noisier than bcpap for preterm infants.
Nutritional assessment of gluten-free diet. Is gluten-free diet deficient in some nutrient? [SEP] it examines common cultural and lifestyle dietary practices, such as omnivorous, vegetarian, mediterranean, pescatarian, ketogenic, and gluten-free diets, along with their potential nutrient deficiencies. a comparison of growth and dietary adequacy of children with celiac disease on a gluten-free diet with their healthy-peers at a tertiary care center in turkey. the aim of this study was to evaluate nutritional intake and dietary adequacy of children with cd having good adherence to a gfd compared with their healthy peers and to assess the contribution of commercial gluten-free products on the daily energy and macronutrient intakes. the gluten-free diet for celiac disease: critical insights to better understand clinical outcomes. nutrient deficiencies in children with celiac disease during long term follow-up. patients with cd must follow a gluten-free diet (gfd), which is also associated with nutrient deficiencies. this study highlights the necessity to structurally investigate the risk of developing nutrient deficiencies while following a gfd. the importance of an early evaluation after establishing a gluten-free diet in children with celiac disease. a gluten-free diet (gfd) is the only treatment available for celiac disease (cd); hence, it is important to ensure correct adherence to the diet and adequate monitoring of the diet. the present study aims to assess the importance of an early follow-up of celiac patients after diagnosis of the disease, identify the role of stool gluten immunogenic peptides (gips) in the assessment of gfd adherence, and analyze possible nutritional imbalances or deficiencies in the gfd.
Antiretroviral therapy related adverse effects: Can sub-Saharan Africa cope with the new "test and treat" policy of the World Health Organization? [SEP] antiretroviral therapy related adverse effects: can sub-saharan africa cope with the new "test and treat" policy of the world health organization? recent studies have shown that early antiretroviral therapy (art) initiation results in significant hiv transmission reduction. this is the rationale behind the "test and treat" policy of the world health organization (who). implementation of this policy will lead to an increased incidence of art-related adverse effects, especially in sub-saharan africa (ssa). the introduction and widespread use of art have drastically changed the natural history of hiv/aids, but exposure to art leads to serious medication-related adverse effects mainly explained by mitochondrial toxicities, and the situation will get worse in the near future. the prevalence of these disorders is already high in ssa, and the situation will be exacerbated by the implementation of the new who recommendations. most ssa countries are characterized by (extreme) poverty, very weak health systems, inadequate and low quality of health services, inaccessibility to existing health facilities, lack of (qualified) health personnel, lack of adequate equipment, inaccessibility and unaffordability of medicines, and heavy workload in a context of a double burden of disease. additionally, there is dearth of data on the incidence and predictive factors of art-related adverse effects in ssa, to anticipate on strategies that should be put in place to prevent the occurrence of these conditions or properly estimate the upcoming burden and prepare an adequate response plan. while ssa would be the first region to experience the huge benefits of implementing the "test and treat" policy of the who, the region is not yet prepared to manage the consequential increased burden of art-related toxic and metabolic complications. urgent measures should be taken to fill the lacunae if ssa is not to become over-burdened by the consequences of the "test and treat" policy.
Preoperative staging of patients with liver metastases of colorectal carcinoma. Does PET/CT really add something to multidetector CT? [SEP] preoperative staging of patients with liver metastases of colorectal carcinoma. does pet/ct really add something to multidetector ct? this study was designed to determine prospectively whether the systematic use of pet/ct associated with conventional techniques could improve the accuracy of staging in patients with liver metastases of colorectal carcinoma. preoperative workup included multidetector-ct (mdct) and pet/ct. sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (ppv), and negative predictive values for hepatic and extrahepatic staging of mdct and pet-ct were calculated. in a lesion-by-lesion analysis of the hepatic staging, the sensitivity of mdct/rm was superior to pet/ct (89.2 vs. 55%, p < 0.001). on the extrahepatic staging, pet/ct was superior to mdct/mr only for the detection of locoregional recurrence (p = 0.03) and recurrence in uncommon sites (p = 0.016). new findings in pet/ct resulted in a change in therapeutic strategy in 17 patients. pet/ct has a limited role in hepatic staging of lmcrc. although pet-ct has higher sensitivity for the detection of extrahepatic disease in some anatomic locations, its results are hampered by its low ppv.
Can myometrial electrical activity identify patients in preterm labor? [SEP] the predictive role of uterine electromyography in delivery before 28 weeks of gestation after transvaginal cervical cerclage. uterine electromyography (uemg), a noninvasive method that records myometrial electrical activity, offers objective and accurate assessment of uterine contractions. review and study of uterine bioelectrical waveforms and vector analysis to identify electrical and mechanosensitive transduction control mechanisms during labor in pregnant patients. the objectives are as follows: (1) to review the literature and information concerning uterine biopotential waveforms generated by the uterus, known to produce contractions, and evaluate mechanotransduction in pregnant patients using electromyographic (emg) recording methods and (2) to study a new approach, uterine vector analysis, commonly used for the heart: vectorcardiography analysis. a better understanding of myometrial activities could help to reduce preterm deliveries and the costs associated with prematurity in the following years. can myometrial electrical activity identify patients in preterm labor? the objective of the study was to determine whether myometrial electrical activity can differentiate false from true preterm labor. electrical uterine myography (eum) was measured prospectively on 87 women, gestational age less than 35 weeks. the period between contractions, power of contraction peaks and movement of center of electrical activity (rms), was used to develop an index score (1-5) for prediction of preterm delivery (ptd) within 14 days of the test. measuring myometrial electrical activity may enhance identification of patients in true premature labor.
Schizophrenia patients with high intelligence: A clinically distinct sub-type of schizophrenia? [SEP] schizophrenia patients with high intelligence: a clinically distinct sub-type of schizophrenia? schizophrenia patients are typically found to have low iq both pre- and post-onset, in comparison to the general population. however, a subgroup of patients displays above average iq pre-onset. the nature of these patients' illness and its relationship to typical schizophrenia is not well understood. the current study sought to investigate the symptom profile of high-iq schizophrenia patients. we identified 29 schizophrenia patients of exceptionally high pre-morbid intelligence (mean estimated pre-morbid intelligence quotient (iq) of 120), of whom around half also showed minimal decline (less than 10 iq points) from their estimated pre-morbid iq. we compared their symptom scores (saps, sans, opcrit, madrs, gaf, sai-e) with a comparison group of schizophrenia patients of typical iq using multinomial logistic regression. the patients with very high pre-morbid iq had significantly lower scores on negative and disorganised symptoms than typical patients (rrr=0.019; 95% ci=0.001, 0.675, p=0.030), and showed better global functioning and insight (rrr=1.082; 95% ci=1.020, 1.148; p=0.009). those with a minimal post-onset iq decline also showed higher levels of manic symptoms (rrr=8.213; 95% ci=1.042, 64.750, p=0.046). these findings provide evidence for the existence of a high-iq variant of schizophrenia that is associated with markedly fewer negative symptoms than typical schizophrenia, and lends support to the idea of a psychosis spectrum or continuum over boundaried diagnostic categories.
Is ankle/arm pressure predictive for cardiovascular mortality in older patients living in nursing homes? [SEP] is ankle/arm pressure predictive for cardiovascular mortality in older patients living in nursing homes? to identify whether ankle/arm index (aai) is a predictive factor for cardiovascular mortality in institutionalised elderly. 418 dependent elderly (83 males, 335 females, mean age 83.7+/-8.5 y, range 55-102) living in the nursing homes. the prevalence of peripheral arterial disease (pad) was evaluated using a doppler ultrasound measurement of aai (ankle/arm blood pressure index). death causes according to icd-9-cm were ascertained on patient's clinical records. the presence of pad was not related to total mortality or to mortality for ischemic heart disease (ihd), cerebrovascular disease or other causes. ihd mortality was significantly and independently related to low haemoglobin values, previous cerebrovascular disease, polypharmacy and poor mobility conditions. the prevalence of pad is high in nursing home residents. aai is not predictive for ihd mortality in this population. in very frail elderly traditional risk factors and pad are less important predictors of death compared to poor functional status, nutritional factors and previous cardiovascular disease.
Is nasogastric decompression useful in prevention of leaks after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy? [SEP] is nasogastric decompression useful in prevention of leaks after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy? although its excellent results, laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (lsg) presents major complications ranging from 0% to 29%. no author has investigated the role of gastric decompression in the prevention of this complication. aim of our work is to evaluate if this procedure can play a role in avoiding the occurrence of staple line leaks after lsg. seventy patients composed the group a, whose operations were completed with placement of nasogastric tube; the other 75 patients were included in the group b, in which no nasogastric tube was placed. no intraoperative complications and no conversion occurred in both groups. intraoperative blood loss (50.1 ± 42.3 vs. 52.5 ± 37.6 ml, respectively) and operative time (65.4 ± 25.5 vs. 62.6 ± 27.8 min, respectively) were comparable between the two groups (p: ns). one staple line leak (1.4%) occurred on 6th postoperative day in group a patients. no leak was observed in group b patients. routine placement of nasogastric tube in patients operated of lsg seems not useful in reducing leaks' incidence.
The objective structured clinical examination: can physician-examiners participate from a distance? [SEP] the objective structured clinical examination: can physician-examiners participate from a distance? currently, a 'pedagogical gap' exists in distributed medical education in that distance educators teach medical students but typically do not have the opportunity to assess them in large-scale examinations such as the objective structured clinical examination (osce). we developed a remote examiner osce (reosce) that was integrated into a traditional osce to establish whether remote examination technology may be used to bridge this gap. the purpose of this study was to explore whether remote physician-examiners can replace on-site physician-examiners in an osce, and to determine the feasibility of this new examination method. for the reosce stations, student performance was assessed by both a local examiner (le) in the room and a remote examiner (re) who viewed the osce encounters from a distance. remote examination may be a feasible and acceptable way of assessing students' clinical skills, but further validity evidence will be required before it can be recommended for use in high-stakes examinations. to apply a preventive omt protocol for cross-country athletes to reduce the incidence of stress fractures. examinations of cross-country athletes at an ncaa (national collegiate athletic association) division i university were performed by supervising physician-examiners and first- and second-year osteopathic medical students during several consecutive academic years. the intervention included osteopathic structural examination and omt that focused on somatic dysfunction identified in the pelvis, sacrum, and lower extremities. more than 1800 participant examinations were performed on 124 male and female participants by 3 supervising physician-examiners and 141 osteopathic medical students over the course of 5 consecutive academic years (2004-2005 to 2008-2009).
Does open access endoscopy close the door to an adequately informed patient? [SEP] 
Is hypoalbuminemia an independent prognostic factor in patients with gastric cancer? [SEP] clinical risk factors associated with poor prognosis in gastric cancer patients with peritoneal metastasis. this retrospective study aimed to identify clinical risk factors associated with poor prognosis in elderly patients with gastric cancer with peritoneal metastasis. comprehensive assessment incorporating peritoneal stage, ascites grade, functional status, and inflammatory markers may facilitate individualized therapeutic strategies and prognostic stratification in elderly patients with gastric cancer with peritoneal metastasis. critical perioperative factors influencing postoperative complications and long-term survival in patients with gastric cancer. we aimed to determine key perioperative factors affecting postoperative complications and long-term survival in gastric cancer patients undergoing gastrectomy and to evaluate their predictive value for clinical outcomes. the pni, lvi, tnm stage, alb, ca19-9, age, and cea were identified as independent perioperative risk factors for long-term survival in gastric cancer patients undergoing gastrectomy. the prognostic impact of pretreatment anemia in patients with gastric cancer and nonhypoalbuminemia undergoing curative resection: a retrospective study. an evaluation of the effect of preoperative inflammation-based factors on survival in gastric cancer patients. inflammation-based factors including ast-alt ratio and albumin can help assess prognosis in patients with gastric cancer in standard clinical preoperative tests. prediction of postoperative mortality in patients with organ failure after gastric cancer surgery.
Can the postoperative pain level be predicted preoperatively? [SEP] preoperative pain severity significantly predicted higher postoperative pain levels (p < 0.05). preoperative pain severity was a significant determinant of postoperative pain intensity and was also associated with changes in ohrqol. preoperative pain severity predicts postoperative recovery, while thorough root canal debridement contributes to more favorable patient-reported quality-of-life improvements. visual analog pain scale (vas), modified harris hip score, and 12-component international hip outcome tool were collected preoperatively and at follow-up. postoperative outcomes were analyzed, including patient-reported outcome measures, physical therapy parameters, readmission rate, overall complication rate, and 90-day return to operating room. to develop and internally validate a clinically interpretable preoperative model for predicting medium-to-high opioid consumption within 72 h after unilateral total knee arthroplasty (tka). a simple preoperative model based on routinely available demographic, clinical, and inflammatory variables may help identify patients at increased risk of higher opioid requirements after unilateral tka and may support individualized multimodal analgesic planning. to investigate the predictive value and mechanism of serum microrna-145-5p (mir-145-5p) in pkp-related postoperative pain and to support precise pain assessment and intervention. preoperative vas, bone density t-value, and mir-145-5p were independent predictors of moderate-to-severe postoperative pain. preoperative serum mir-145-5p is a potential biomarker for assessing pkp-related postoperative pain, aiding precise intervention.
Proliferative index obtained by DNA image cytometry. Does it add prognostic information in Auer IV breast cancer? [SEP] proliferative index obtained by dna image cytometry. does it add prognostic information in auer iv breast cancer? to investigate whether the s + g2/m fraction (proliferative index) is a prognostic determinant in breast cancers classified as auer iv. prognostic evaluation of auer iv dna histograms with respect to the high versus low s + g2/m fraction, obtained by image cytometry on consecutive breast cancer imprint preparations. when studying recurrence-free survival (n = 136), the prognostic value of s + g2/m was found to vary with time: it was negligible before the median time to relapse (1.5 years) but thereafter statistically significant, in both univariate and multivariate analysis. the same pattern was found when overall survival was used as the end point; the effect was delayed to about the median time until death (three years). tumors with a low s + g2/m fraction were smaller and more often estrogen receptor- and progesterone receptor-positive than those with a high s + g2/m fraction. according to icm-dna values corresponding to the s + g2/m region, patients with breast cancers classified as auer iv can be divided into subgroups with different tumor characteristics and prognoses.
Does skin care frequency affect the severity of incontinence-associated dermatitis in critically ill patients? [SEP] incontinence-associated dermatitis: who is affected? intensive care unit (icu) patients possess multiple risk factors for developing loss of skin integrity, particularly incontinence-associated dermatitis (iad). iad is an inflammatory skin condition resulting from repeated and prolonged contact with urine, faeces or both. included patients were ≥18 years who experienced faecal incontinence during their intensive care admission. incidence of iad was 35.1%; 13 patients who had incontinence developed iad. does skin care frequency affect the severity of incontinence-associated dermatitis in critically ill patients? incontinence-associated dermatitis (iad) is a potentially serious skin injury that can lead to pressure ulcers (pus). multiple studies have indicated the need for evidence to find the most effective skin care protocol to reduce the incidence and severity of iad in critically ill patients. to compare the incidence and severity of iad in two groups on a progressive care unit (pcu) using a defined skin care protocol: cleaning with a gentle cleanser and moisturizer, then applying a skin protectant/barrier. a 9-month randomized prospective study was conducted on 99 patients (n = 55 in the intervention group and n = 44 in the control group) who were incontinent of urine, stool, or both, or had a fecal diversion device or urinary catheter for more than 2 days.
Is primary angioplasty an acceptable alternative to thrombolysis? [SEP] in the acute setting, endovascular interventions, including embolectomy, transcatheter thrombolysis, and angioplasty with or without stent placement, are recommended as initial therapeutic options. is primary angioplasty an acceptable alternative to thrombolysis? the national infarct angioplasty project assessed the feasibility of establishing a comprehensive primary angioplasty service. primary angioplasty or thrombolysis. reorganization of care to offer a primary angioplasty service was acceptable to patients and their carers. several randomized trials have shown that primary pci is superior to thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction (ami). despite these findings, thrombolytic therapy remains an acceptable alternative for most patients, yet it may not be ideal for higher-risk ami patients. mechanical opening of acutely occluded coronary arteries by percutaneous coronary interventions (pci) is, however, an alternative to thrombolytic therapy. direct percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (d-ptca) in patients with acute myocardial infarctions (aim) has become an alternative of thrombolytic treatment. for chronic occlusions (duration exceeding 3 months), balloon angioplasty alone, thrombolysis with subsequent balloon angioplasty, and elective stenting or mechanical passage of the occlusion followed by primary stent implantation have been described as alternative techniques.
Does the aggressive use of polyvalent antivenin for rattlesnake bites result in serious acute side effects? [SEP] does the aggressive use of polyvalent antivenin for rattlesnake bites result in serious acute side effects? to determine the incidence and severity of acute side effects from the use of polyvalent antivenin in victims of rattlesnake bites. we retrospectively reviewed the records of all patients who presented with rattlesnake bites to a university teaching hospital during an 11-year period. primary outcome variables were the occurrence of immediate hypersensitivity reaction to antivenin, the type of reaction, permanent disability at hospital discharge, and mortality. we identified a total of 73 patients with rattlesnake bites during the study period. bite envenomation was graded as nonenvenomated, 7 patients (10%); mild, 23 patients (32%); moderate, 32 patients (44%); and severe, 11 patients (15%). the mean number of vials of antivenin given to each snakebite grade were as follows: mild, 8.4 (+/-4.0); moderate, 11.8 (+/-5.7); and severe, 18.7 (+/-6.3). no deaths, amputations, or permanent disability from snakebite occurred in the patients receiving antivenin. acute side effects of antivenin-occurring within the first 6 hours after administration-were seen in 12 patients (18%; 95% confidence interval, 10%-30%). the administration of polyvalent crotalidae antivenin is safe.
Do resident's leadership skills relate to ratings of technical skill? [SEP] non-technical skills training to enhance performance of obstetrics and gynaecology residents in the operating room. the importance of incorporating non-technical skills in surgical training cannot be understated, however, these remain non-core components of training. the aim of our study was to evaluate the effectiveness of a training course in improving residents' non-technical skills performance in the operating room. a blinded assessor assessed non-technical skill performance by using non-technical skill for surgeons rating system while performing two procedures evacuation and curettage and elective caesarean section in pretest and post-test phase. do resident's leadership skills relate to ratings of technical skill? this study sought to compare general surgery research residents' survey information regarding self-efficacy ratings to their observed performance during a simulated small bowel repair. their observed performance ratings were based on their leadership skills in directing their assistant. participants who rated lower levels of decay in their intraoperative decision-making and small bowel repair skills were noted to use their assistant more by giving more instructions. general surgery research residents' intraoperative leadership skills showed significant correlations to their perceptions of skill decay and task difficulty during a bowel repair. evaluating resident's directional instructions may provide an additional individualized intraoperative assessment metric.
CYP2D6*4 allele and breast cancer risk: is there any association? [SEP] 
Does base deficit predict mortality in patients with severe traumatic brain injury? [SEP] long-term analysis of functional outcomes in traumatic brain injury patients. the base deficit, international normalized ratio, and glasgow coma scale (big) score, and functional outcome at hospital discharge in children with traumatic brain injury. to examine the association of the base deficit, international normalized ratio, and glasgow coma scale (big) score on emergency department arrival with functional dependence at hospital discharge (pediatric cerebral performance category ≥ 4) in pediatric multiple trauma patients with traumatic brain injury. a comparison of initial lactate and initial base deficit as predictors of mortality after severe blunt trauma. base deficit but not lactic acid concentration was significantly higher in head injury patients with associated injuries. does base deficit predict mortality in patients with severe traumatic brain injury? the aim of this study was to examine the presence of bd in patients with isolated severe traumatic brain injury (tbi), and to assess if it correlates with the outcomes in these patients. the effect of associated injuries, blood loss, and oxygen debt on death and disability in blunt traumatic brain injury: the need for early physiologic predictors of severity. the severity of the associated injuries effect on the brain injured patient could be estimated by a parameter of oxygen debt, the base deficit and this allowed for a quantitative estimate of the probability of death as an index of severity. a combined linear logistic model using the admission glasgow coma score (gcs) as a measure of brain injury and the base deficit as a measure of physiologic injury provides such a predictive score.
Does increased use of private health care reduce the demand for NHS care? [SEP] we explored gp perspectives on drivers of demand and barriers to safe, coordinated care within the national health service (nhs). changes in publicly and privately funded care in england following a national programme to reduce provision of low-value elective surgery. this study assessed whether there is an association between changes in publicly and privately funded care for procedures classified as low value by the national health service (nhs) in england following implementation of the evidence-based intervention (ebi) programme. there was a statistically significant association between changes in publicly and privately funded care for category 2 procedures at the hospital (-0.19, 95 per cent c.i. reductions in publicly funded care were likely a combined result of the ebi programme and growing nhs waiting lists, whereas increases in privately funded care were influenced by both patient and supplier-induced demand. does increased use of private health care reduce the demand for nhs care? the use of the private sector for health care is increasing, but it is unclear whether this will reduce demand on the nhs. the aim of this study was to examine the relationship between private and nhs outpatient referral rates accounting for their association with deprivation. of 17,137 referrals, 90.4 percent (15,495) were to the nhs and 9.6 percent (1642) to the private sector. increased private health care activity does not reduce the demand for nhs care: nhs and private referral rates were positively associated with each other after adjusting for age, deprivation and practice.
Does confined placental mosaicism account for adverse perinatal outcomes in IVF pregnancies? [SEP] does confined placental mosaicism account for adverse perinatal outcomes in ivf pregnancies? ivf singletons have poorer perinatal outcomes than singletons from spontaneous conceptions. this may be due to the influence of ovarian stimulation on the chromosomal constitution of the embryos which could be translated into localized chromosomal anomalies in the placenta. the aim of this study was to compare the incidence of confined placental mosaicism (cpm) in ivf/icsi pregnancies and spontaneous conceptions. we conducted a multi-centre retrospective analysis of karyotype results obtained by chorionic villus sampling (cvs), performed due to advanced maternal age (>or=36 years at 18 weeks of gestation), in the netherlands between 1995 and 2005. from a total of 322 246 pregnancies, 20 885 cvs results were analysed: 235 in the ivf/icsi group and 20 650 in the control group. data relating to the fetal karyotype were missing in 143 cases in the control group. when taking into account missing data, the incidence of cpm was lower in the ivf-icsi group than in the control group, 1.3% versus 2.2% (odds ratio 0.59, 95% ci 0.19-1.85), whereas the incidence of fetal chromosomal anomalies was increased 4.3% versus 2.4% (odds ratio 1.81, 95% ci 0.95-3.42). the incidence of cpm is not increased in ivf/icsi pregnancies compared with spontaneous conceptions. cpm probably does not account for the adverse perinatal outcomes following ivf/icsi.
Utility of unenhanced fat-suppressed T1-weighted MRI in children with sickle cell disease -- can it differentiate bone infarcts from acute osteomyelitis? [SEP] utility of unenhanced fat-suppressed t1-weighted mri in children with sickle cell disease -- can it differentiate bone infarcts from acute osteomyelitis? children with sickle cell disease (scd) are at risk of bone infarcts and acute osteomyelitis. the clinical differentiation between a bone infarct and acute osteomyelitis is a diagnostic challenge. unenhanced t1-w fat-saturated mr images have been proposed as a potential tool to differentiate bone infarcts from osteomyelitis. to evaluate the reliability of unenhanced t1-w fat-saturated mri for differentiation between bone infarcts and acute osteomyelitis in children with scd. we retrospectively reviewed the records of 31 children (20 boys, 11 girls; mean age 10.6 years, range 1.1-17.9 years) with scd and acute bone pain who underwent mr imaging including unenhanced t1-w fat-saturated images from 2005 to 2010. based on the signal intensity in t1-w fat-saturated images, the children were further classified as positive for osteomyelitis (low bone marrow signal intensity) or positive for bone infarct (high bone marrow signal intensity). based on the clinical standard, 5 children were classified as positive for osteomyelitis and 26 children as positive for bone infarct (negative for osteomyelitis). the bone marrow signal intensity on t1-w fat-saturated imaging was not significant for the differentiation between bone infarct and osteomyelitis (p = 0.56). the bone marrow signal intensity on unenhanced t1-w fat-saturated mr images is not a reliable criterion to differentiate bone infarcts from osteomyelitis in children.
Cancer of the buccal mucosa: are margins and T-stage accurate predictors of local control? [SEP] cancer of the buccal mucosa: are margins and t-stage accurate predictors of local control? cancer of the buccal mucosa is an uncommon and aggressive neoplasm of the oral cavity. less than 2% of patients treated for cancer of the oral cavity at roswell park cancer institute (rpci) from 1971 to 1997 had primary buccal cancers. because the majority of these patients did not undergo any adjuvant treatment, this group provided us with the opportunity to assess the relationship between margin status and local recurrence for both small (t1-t2) and large (t3-t4) tumors treated with surgery alone. the rpci tumor registry database reported 104 patients who were treated for buccal carcinoma. a retrospective chart review identified 27 patients who met our criteria for a buccal mucosal primary tumor (epicenter of the mass in the buccal mucosa). patients with close or positive margins had a 66% local failure rate as compared with 52% when surgical margins were negative (greater than or equal to 5 mm from the resection margin after tissue fixation; p = ns). local excision of t1 and t2 buccal mucosa cancers with pathologically negative margins had a high rate of local recurrence in our series. low t-stage and negative margins are not adequate predictors of local control. even early buccal tumors may benefit from adjuvant therapy to enhance local control.
Can mass drug administration lead to the sustainable control of schistosomiasis? [SEP] 
Can D-dimer become a new diagnostic parameter for acute appendicitis? [SEP] can d-dimer become a new diagnostic parameter for acute appendicitis? in this study, we investigated d-dimer serum level as a diagnostic parameter for acute appendicitis. patients were classified according to age; sex; duration between the beginning of pain and referral to a hospital or clinic; alvarado scores; and in physical examination, presence of muscular defense, the number of leukocytes, preoperative ultrasonography, and d-dimer levels of histopathologic study groups were analyzed. the average age was 21 years (range, 16-38 years) and 81.7% acute appendicitis (aa). according the duration of pain, 63.2% of the patients were referred to the hospital within the first 24 hours, 26.5% of the patients were referred to the hospital within 24 to 48 hours, and 10.3% were referred to the hospital within a period of more than 48 hours. no statistically significant difference was determined regarding d-dimer levels between the histopathologic study groups (p > .05). alvarado scores lower than 7 were found in 36.7% and 7 or higher in 63.3% of the patients. there was no statistically significant difference related with d-dimer levels between histopathologic study groups (p > .05). the ratio of cases with a number of leukocytes below the upper limit were determined respectively as 32.7% and 67.3%, and no statistically significant difference was found regarding d-dimer levels between histopathologic study groups (p > .05). increased d-dimer levels should not be considered as a diagnostic parameter in diagnosis of acute appendicitis.
Is there a relationship between rheumatoid arthritis and periodontal disease? [SEP] 
Do clinical variables predict pathologic radiographs in the first episode of wheezing? [SEP] do clinical variables predict pathologic radiographs in the first episode of wheezing? to determine if clinical variables assessed in relation to albuterol aerosol treatments accurately identify children with pathologic radiographs during their initial episode of bronchospasm. a prospective convenience sample of children with a first episode of wheezing. chest radiographs were obtained and interpreted, and patients were divided into 2 groups based on a pathologic versus nonpathologic radiograph interpretation. clinical variables, either isolated or as components of a model, could not identify all children with pathologic radiographs. chest radiography in the initial episode of bronchospasm in children: can clinical variables predict pathologic findings? to determine whether historical or clinical variables can accurately discriminate among children, experiencing a first episode of bronchospasm, with chest radiography findings that are normal, consistent with reactive airway disease (rad), or pathologic. all patients aged newborn to 18 years presenting to the ed with their initial episode of wheezing were enrolled. the model failed to accurately discriminate among patients with radiographs revealing evidence of a pathologic condition, normal chest findings, and rad. continued use of chest radiography as a diagnostic intervention in the initial episode of childhood bronchospasm is recommended.
Globulomaxillary cysts--do they really exist? [SEP] globulomaxillary cysts--do they really exist? the so-called "globulomaxillary cyst", described as a fissural cyst, caused by entrapped epithelium between the nasal and maxillary process, is no longer considered for its own entity. nevertheless, cystic lesions, which correspond to the previous image of globulomaxillary cysts, do still occur in daily practice. this raises the question to which entities pathological processes in this particular region actually belong to. in a retrospective study, 17 cases (12 men and 5 women, 12-59 years old) of primarily diagnosed globulomaxillary cysts are analysed according to clinical, radiological and histological aspects, catamnestic processed and assigned to a new entity. the results are compared with the international literature and draws conclusions on the diagnostic and therapeutic procedure. seven lateral periodontal cysts, four radicular cysts, two keratocystic odontogenic tumours, one adenomatoid odontogenic tumour, one periapical granuloma, one residual cyst and one undefined jaw cyst were determined. according to the results of our study and the data from the international literature, the entity globulomaxillary cyst is no longer justified.
MiraLAX vs. Golytely: is there a significant difference in the adenoma detection rate? [SEP] 
Does telmisartan prevent hepatic fibrosis in rats with alloxan-induced diabetes? [SEP] does telmisartan prevent hepatic fibrosis in rats with alloxan-induced diabetes? this study evaluated the effect of telmisartan on the livers of diabetic rats and also aimed to determine the hepatic distribution and role of transforming growth factor beta (tgf-beta) in diabetes-related hepatic degeneration while taking into account the possible protective effects of telmisartan. fifteen adult male rats were used and divided into three groups: the non-diabetic healthy group, alloxan-induced diabetic control group, and the alloxan-induced diabetic telmisartan group. the non-diabetic healthy group and the diabetic control group were exposed to saline for 30 days, while the group treated with diabetic drugs was orally administered telmisartan for 30 days (10 mg/kg/day). at the end of the experiment, the rats were sacrificed and the livers were dissected and transferred into the fixation solution. the livers were then evaluated using stereological and histopathological methods. our study of the numerical density of hepatocytes shows a significant difference between the diabetic control group and diabetic rats treated with telmisartan. immunohistochemical staining for tgf-beta in liver sections of the diabetic rats treated with telmisartan showed no immunoreactivity. the diabetic control group was determined to be strongly immunoreactive to tgf-beta. results suggest that telmisartan may reduce type-i diabetes mellitus-induced hepatic injury by suppressing activated hepatic stellate cells through concomitant tgf-beta1 down-regulation.
Two-year follow-up survey of patients with allergic contact dermatitis from an occupational cohort: is the prognosis dependent on the omnipresence of the allergen? [SEP] 
Can nurse-led preoperative education reduce anxiety and postoperative complications of patients undergoing cardiac surgery? [SEP] can nurse-led preoperative education reduce anxiety and postoperative complications of patients undergoing cardiac surgery? the effect of preoperative education on anxiety and postoperative outcomes of cardiac surgery patients remains unclear. the aim of the study was to estimate the effectiveness of a nurse-led preoperative education on anxiety and postoperative outcomes. all the patients who were admitted for elective cardiac surgery in a general hospital in athens with knowledge of the greek language were eligible to take part in the study. patients in the intervention group received preoperative education by specially trained nurses. measurements of anxiety were conducted on admission-a, before surgery-b and before discharge-c by the state-trait anxiety inventory. the state anxiety on the day before surgery decreased only in the intervention group (34.0 (8.4) versus 36.9 (10.7); p=0.001). lower proportions of chest infection were found in the intervention group (10 (5.3) versus 1 (0.5); p=0.004). multivariate linear regression revealed that education and score in trait anxiety scale on admission are independent predictors of a reduction in state anxiety. preoperative education delivered by nurses reduced anxiety and postoperative complications of patients undergoing cardiac surgery, but it was not effective in reducing readmissions or length of stay.
Is there a discrepancy between patient and physician quality of life assessment? [SEP] 
Impact of MPH programs: contributing to health system strengthening in low- and middle-income countries? [SEP] impact of mph programs: contributing to health system strengthening in low- and middle-income countries? the "health workforce" crisis has led to an increased interest in health professional education, including mph programs. recently, it was questioned whether training of mid- to higher level cadres in public health prepared graduates with competencies to strengthen health systems in low- and middle-income countries. measuring educational impact has been notoriously difficult; therefore, innovative methods for measuring the outcome and impact of mph programs were sought. this is part of a larger six-country mixed method study; in this paper, the focus is on the qualitative findings of two english language programs, one a distance mph program offered from south africa, the other a residential program in the netherlands. both offer mph training to students from a diversity of countries. in-depth interviews were conducted with 10 graduates (per program), working in low- and middle-income health systems, their peers, and their supervisors. wider impact in the workplace took the form of introducing workplace innovations such as setting up an aids and addiction research center and research involvement; teaching and training, advocacy, and community engagement were other ways in which graduates' influence reached a wider target grouping. beyond the workplace, an intersectoral approach, national reach through policy advisory roles to ministries of health, policy development, and capacity building, was reported. much of the impact described was in line with public health educational aims.
Is diffusion-weighted imaging a significant indicator of the development of vascularization in hypovascular hepatocellular lesions? [SEP] is diffusion-weighted imaging a significant indicator of the development of vascularization in hypovascular hepatocellular lesions? the objective was to evaluate the efficacy of diffusion-weighted imaging (dwi) in predicting the development of vascularization in hypovascular hepatocellular lesions (hhls). forty-two hhls that were diagnosed by computed tomographic (ct) arteriography were evaluated retrospectively. the lesion on dwi was classified as isointense, hypointense, or hyperintense. follow-up studies that included intravenous dynamic ct or magnetic resonance imaging were performed. the 730-day cumulative developments of vascularization in hypointense, isointense, and hyperintense lesions were 17%, 30%, and 40%, respectively. the differences among these developments were not statistically significant. the signal intensity on dwi showed no significant difference in the development of vascularization.
Are failures of anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction associated with steep posterior tibial slopes? [SEP] excessive posterior tibial slope (pts) has been implicated in increasing the risk of anterior cruciate ligament (acl) graft failure. effect of slope-reducing tibial osteotomy with primary anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction on clinical and radiological results in patients with a steep posterior tibial slope and excessive anterior tibial subluxation: propensity score matching with a minimum 2-year follow-up. a steep posterior tibial slope (pts) and excessive anterior tibial subluxation of the lateral compartment (aslc) have been considered to be associated with inferior graft outcomes in primary anterior cruciate ligament (acl) reconstruction (aclr). the effect of posterior tibial slope on the risk of revision surgery after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. steep posterior tibial slope (pts; >13°), excessive anterior tibial subluxation (ats) in extension (>10 mm), and meniscus posterior horn tears (mphts) have been identified to be associated with primary anterior cruciate ligament (acl) reconstruction (aclr) failure. higher risk of contralateral anterior cruciate ligament (acl) injury within 2 years after acl reconstruction in under-18-year-old patients with steep tibial plateau slope. to assess the role of tibial plateau slope (tps) as risk factor for early anterior cruciate ligament (acl) reconstruction failure and contralateral acl injury in a population of patients with less than 18 years of age and operated on with the same surgical technique. steep tibial plateau slope ≥ 12° is associated with a higher risk of contralateral acl injury within 2 years after acl reconstruction in patients less than 18 years of age. are failures of anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction associated with steep posterior tibial slopes? recently, increasing number of literature has identified the posterior tibial slope (pts) as one of the risk factors of primary anterior cruciate ligament (acl) injury.
Does evidence-based practice improve patient outcomes? [SEP] bridging the gap between evidence-based guidelines and clinical practice excellence: the role of mentorship. despite the established need for evidence-based practice (ebp), its implementation in nursing remains inconsistent due to organizational, presentation, and individual barriers. mentorship is frequently cited as a solution, yet its specific mechanisms for bridging evidence to practice are underexplored. second, we examine how mentorship mitigates presentation-related barriers by enabling mentors to act as knowledge brokers, translating complex evidence into accessible, context-specific guidance for the bedside. we conclude that formalized mentorship is essential for transforming theoretical evidence into sustainable bedside practice and fostering a culture of excellence that directly improves patient outcomes. this study aimed to examine the implementation processes and system-level outcomes associated with the national adoption of the registered nurses' association of ontario (rnao) pressure injury prevention best practice guideline across high-complexity public hospitals in chile, from a best practice spotlight organization® (bpso®) host model perspective. pioneer hospitals demonstrated consistently higher adherence to preventive processes and lower pressure injury incidence compared with later adopters. a host-led national implementation strategy can strengthen adherence to evidence-informed pressure injury prevention practices, reduce system-level variability, and sustain low incidence across a public hospital network. the chilean bpso® host model illustrates how coordinated governance, standardized indicators, and structured implementation support can scale evidence-based practice in middle-income health systems. these results are expected to provide evidence-based guidance for standardizing nursing-led ett care protocols in icu.
Multidisciplinary decisions in breast cancer: does the patient receive what the team has recommended? [SEP] 
Does quilting suture prevent seroma in abdominoplasty? [SEP] quilting sutures, as previously described in abdominoplasty, can minimize dead space and reduce hematoma and seroma formation. the use of progressive-tension and quilting sutures had the most data supporting a statistically significant reduction in seroma (occurrence ratio 0.306,  this review highlights multiple seroma prevention techniques for abdominoplasty investigated in recent high-quality literature. the effectiveness of using quilting/progressive tension sutures in reducing seroma formation after abdominoplasties is well established in the literature, eliminating the use of drains regardless of the simultaneous performance of liposuction. two decades of literature have described benefits of quilting sutures/progressive tension sutures (pts) in reducing seroma rates and other complications in abdominoplasties. do abdominal binders prevent seroma formation and recurrent diastasis following abdominoplasty? this study sought to evaluate whether the postoperative wearing of an abdominal binder provides any additional contribution to the reduction of either seroma formation or recurrent diastasis recti when abdominoplasty is performed with quilting sutures. the postoperative wearing of abdominal binders was not effective in preventing either seroma formation or recurrent diastasis following abdominoplasty with quilting sutures. the effect of quilting sutures on the tension required to advance the abdominal flap in abdominoplasty. quilting sutures attaching the abdominal flap to the aponeurosis contribute to the prevention of seroma formation following abdominoplasty. this study sought to verify whether quilting sutures decrease the tension required to advance the dermal-fat flap in abdominoplasty.
Does feeding tube insertion and its timing improve survival? [SEP] feeding tube insertion may be considered for patients with significant weight loss, or respiratory insufficiency. while radiologically inserted gastrostomy (rig) tube placement may be an option, further studies are required to determine its best timing and appropriateness. reduction of unnecessary gastrostomy tube placement in hospitalized patients. secondary outcomes included the timing of the peg tube placement. however, the optimal timing of enteral tube placement and feeding commencement is unknown. does feeding tube insertion and its timing improve survival? to examine survival with and without a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (peg) feeding tube using rigorous methods to account for selection bias and to examine whether the timing of feeding tube insertion affected survival. survival after development of the need for eating assistance and feeding tube insertion. in residents who were tube-fed, the timing of peg tube insertion relative to the onset of eating problems was not associated with survival after feeding tube insertion (ahr = 1.01, 95% ci = 0.86-1.20, persons with a peg tube inserted within 1 month of developing an eating problem versus later (4 months) insertion). neither insertion of peg tubes nor timing of insertion affect survival.
Does prostate morphology affect outcomes after holmium laser enucleation? [SEP] feasibility of holmium laser enucleation of the prostate after prior prostate intervention for benign prostatic hyperplasia. to evaluate the safety and outcomes of holmium laser enucleation of the prostate (holep) in patients with a history of prior surgical prostate intervention, and to compare these results with the patients without previous prostate intervention. comparison of perioperative and short-terms outcomes of en-bloc holmium laser enucleation of the prostate (holep) and robot-assisted simple prostatectomy: a propensity-score matching analysis. holmium laser enucleation of the prostate (holep) has recently become the recommended treatment for prostate in all sizes in benign prostate hyperplasia surgery. predictors of urgency improvement after holmium laser enucleation of the prostate in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia. to investigate the change in urinary urgency and predictors of urgency improvement after holmium laser enucleation of the prostate (holep) in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph). does prostate morphology affect outcomes after holmium laser enucleation? to determine whether prostate morphology or technique used has any effect on postoperative outcomes after holmium laser enucleation of the prostate. a retrospective review of prospectively collected data was completed for all patients undergoing a holmium laser enucleation of the prostate at our institution. those patients with trilobar prostate morphology are more likely to achieve a greater decrease in the pvr urine volume after holmium laser enucleation of the prostate.
Do acute changes in heart rate by isoproterenol affect aortic stiffness in patients with hypertension? [SEP] do acute changes in heart rate by isoproterenol affect aortic stiffness in patients with hypertension? increased aortic stiffness is a independent risk factor of cardiovascular disease in patients with hypertension. acute changes of the heart rate (hr) have been reported not to affect the aortic stiffness in pacing. however, it is unknown whether acute changes in hr caused by sympathomimetics can affect the aortic stiffness in patients with hypertension. we investigated the effect of acute changes in hr produced by isoproterenol on the aortic stiffness in 17 hypertensive patientss (mean age: 59 +/- 9 years). the carotid-to-femoral pulse wave velocity (pwv) was measured by the foot-to-foot method. the pulse waves were recorded at the baseline and at every increase of hr by 5 to 10 bpm with a gradual increase of the dose of isoproterenol. the blood pressures and hr were measured simultaneously. percent changes of the parameters of the aortic stiffness, i.e., deltapwv, deltac, and deltaci, were grouped by every 10% increase in deltahr. aortic stiffness was not affected by acute changes in hr produced by isoproterenol which suggests that it is not necessary to consider acute changes in hr when measuring aortic pwv.
"Occult" posttraumatic lesions of the knee: can magnetic resonance substitute for diagnostic arthroscopy? [SEP] ["occult" posttraumatic lesions of the knee: can magnetic resonance substitute for diagnostic arthroscopy?]. we investigated the actual role of mri versus arthroscopy in the detection and characterization of occult bone and/or cartilage injuries in patients with previous musculoskeletal trauma of the knee, pain and severe functional impairment. occult post-traumatic osteochondral injuries of the knee are trauma-related bone and/or cartilage damage missed at plain radiography. we retrospectively selected 70 patients (men:women = 7:3; age range: 35 +/- 7 years) with a history of acute musculoskeletal trauma, negative conventional radiographs, pain and limited joint movements. we identified three types of occult post-traumatic injuries by morpho-topographic and signal intensity patterns: bone bruises (no. arthroscopy depicted 45 osteochondral and 19 chondral injuries. the cortical bone and articular cartilage were normal in all cases, while osteochondral injuries exhibited associated bone and cartilage damage with the same abnormal mr signal intensity. after comparing mr with arthroscopic findings and reviewing the available literature, we conclude that arthroscopy permits the direct visualization of even fine articular surface changes but does not depict the subchondral bone, the most frequent site of injury detected with mri. mri was a very useful tool in the detection and characterization of the different types of occult bone and/or cartilage injuries and showed a statistically significant correlation between site and distribution of bone and cartilage injuries and between internal damage and trauma mechanisms. therefore, we believe that mri can help avoid diagnostic arthroscopy in the patients with a history of post-traumatic pain, acute articular blocks and negative radiographic findings.
Could ESC (Electronic Stability Control) change the way we drive? [SEP] could esc (electronic stability control) change the way we drive? esc (electronic stability control) is a crash avoidance technology that reduces the likelihood of collisions involving loss of control. although past and emerging research indicates that esc is effective in reducing collision rates and saving lives, and its inclusion in all vehicle platforms is encouraged, drivers may demonstrate behavioral adaptation or an overreliance on esc that could offset or reduce its overall effectiveness. the main objective of the present study was to determine whether behavioral adaptation to esc is likely to occur upon the widespread introduction of esc into the canadian vehicle fleet. two separate telephone surveys evaluated drivers' perceptions and awareness of esc. ninety percent of drivers who knew that their vehicle was equipped with esc believed that esc had made it safer to drive and reported being confident that esc would work in an emergency. twenty-three percent of esc owners who knew their vehicle had esc reported noticing long-lasting changes in their driving behavior since they began driving the vehicle. collectively, results suggest that behavioral adaptation to esc is likely in certain drivers; however, its proven effectiveness in reducing the likelihood of being involved in a serious crash probably outweighs any potential increases in unsafe driving. to fully benefit from esc, vehicle manufacturers are encouraged to market esc-equipped vehicles in a realistic, safe manner. driver training and safety organizations are also encouraged to provide balanced educational information about esc to their members.
The insertion allele of the ACE gene I/D polymorphism. A candidate gene for insulin resistance? [SEP] the ace gene has received substantial attention in recent years as candidate for a variety of diseases. the most common polymorphism in ace gene is the insertion/deletion (i/d, rs4646994) polymorphism located on intron 16. we investigated the association between metabolic syndrome (ms) and the insertion (i) - deletion (d) polymorphisms in the angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) gene in south-east of turkey. the frequency of ace i/d polymorphism was found to be 49.5% for dd, 36.6% for id, and 13.9% for ii in the msstudy group and 44.1% for dd, 42.4% for id and 13.5% for ii in the control group. the i/d polymorphism of the ace gene, dd, id, and ii genotypes occurred with similar frequencies in the study group with ms and the control group with no significant differences (p<0.05). the insertion allele of the ace gene i/d polymorphism. a candidate gene for insulin resistance? the insertion/deletion (id) polymorphism of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) gene has been associated with increased coronary heart disease (chd), although the mechanism of this association is not apparent. we tested the hypothesis that the deletion allele of the ace gene is associated with insulin resistance. we related ace genotype to components of the insulin-resistance syndrome in 103 non-insulin-dependent diabetic (niddm) and 533 nondiabetic white subjects.
Do ventricular arrhythmias in athletes subside over time? [SEP] do ventricular arrhythmias in athletes subside over time? sudden death in athletes can occur during sport activities and is presumably related to ventricular arrhythmias. to investigate the long-term follow-up ofathletes with ventricular arrhythmias during an exercise test. from a database of 56,462 athletes we identified 192 athletes (35 years old who had ventricular arrhythmias during an exercise test. ninety athletes had > or =3 ventricular premature beats (vpb) (group a) and 102 athletes had ventricular couplets or non-sustained ventricular tachycardia during an exercise test (group b). a control group of 92 athletesfrom without ventricular arrhythmias was randomly seleclted from the database (group c). the athletes reached a significantly lower peak heart rate during their follow-up exercise test (p = 0.001). most of theathletes who had vpb and/orventricular couplets and/or nsvt during their initial exercise test had far fewer ventricular arrhythmias in the follow-up exercise test (p = 0.001). athletes engaged in competitive sports are more likely to develop ventricular arrhythmias during exercise. these arrhythmias subside over time when athletes are engaged in non-competitive sports.
Does ethnicity affect where people with cancer die? [SEP] the association of where patients with prostate cancer live and receive care on racial treatment inequities. this study investigates how factors related to the location of where individuals live and receive care affect treatment inequities for prostate cancer between black and white individuals. [influence of culture and religion on the treatment of cancer patients]. disease and mortality in patients can affect different cultural-religious spheres. does ethnicity affect where people with cancer die? to examine patterns in pod among bame groups who died of cancer. hospice deaths were less likely for those born in asia(pr 0.73 [0.68-0.80] p<0.001), africa (pr 0.83[95%ci0.74-0.93]p<0.001), and 'other' geographical regions (pr0.90[95% 0.82-0.98]p<0.001). location of death varies by country of birth. do social factors affect where patients die: an analysis of 10 years of cancer deaths in england. this study investigated whether indices of social deprivation were related to the proportion of cancer patients who died at home.
Are patients with serious mental illness more likely to be admitted to nursing homes with more deficiencies in care? [SEP] are patients with serious mental illness more likely to be admitted to nursing homes with more deficiencies in care? patients diagnosed with serious mental illness (smi) who qualify for nursing home placement tend to require high levels of both psychiatric and nursing care. however, it is unknown whether they are equally likely to be admitted to nursing homes with adequate quality of care compared with other patients. we analyzed a national cohort of more than 1.3 million new nursing home admissions in 2007 using the minimum data set. the total and healthcare-related deficiency citations for each facility were obtained from the online survey, certification, and reporting file. bivariate and multivariate regression analyses determined the association of schizophrenia or bipolar disorder with admissions to facilities with higher deficiencies. compared with other patients, patients with schizophrenia (n=23,767) tended to enter nursing homes with more total (13.3 vs. 11.2, p<0.001) and healthcare-related deficiencies (8.6 vs. 7.2, p<0.001); and patients with bipolar disorder (n=19,741) were more likely to enter facilities with more problematic care too (12.5 vs. 11.2, p<0.001 for total deficiencies; and 8.2 vs. 7.2, p<0.001 for healthcare-related deficiencies). after sequentially controlling for the within-county choice of facilities, patient characteristics, and facility covariates, the association of smi with admitting to higher-deficiency nursing homes persisted. patients diagnosed with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder (ie, smi) were more likely than other patients to be admitted to nursing homes with higher deficiency citations for both overall quality and clinical care quality. further research is necessary to understand the reasons behind the disparity in quality of nursing home care associated with smi.
Does an additional antirotation U-Blade (RC) lag screw improve treatment of AO/OTA 31 A1-3 fractures with gamma 3 nail? [SEP] does an additional antirotation u-blade (rc) lag screw improve treatment of ao/ota 31 a1-3 fractures with gamma 3 nail? poor bone quality and unstable fractures increase the cut-out rate in implants with gliding lag screws. the u-blade (rc) lag screw for the gamma3 between 2009 and 2014, 751 patients with ota/ao 31a1-3 fractures were treated with a gamma3 the most common fracture among group b with a cut-out of the lag screw were ao/ota 2.3 and 3.2 fractures whereas in group a cut-out was most commonly seen in ao/ota 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 fractures, there was no significant reduction of the cut-out rate in group b 2.2% (n=3) compared to group a 3.7% (n=5). the duration of surgery was significantly shorter in group a (p<0.05). there was no significant difference in lag screw placement, the parker's ratio and mobilization. in our study the u-blade (rc) lag screw did not reduce the cut-out in treatment of ota/ao 31a1-3 fractures at all. considering the longer duration of surgery and the higher costs of the u-blade (rc) lag screw, our results do not justify its use. however, further prospective randomized studies will be necessary.
The Omega-3 Index: a new risk factor for death from coronary heart disease? [SEP] in previous studies, low blood levels of n-3 fatty acids (fa) have been associated with increased risk of cardiac death, and the omega-3 index (red blood cell (rbc) eicosapentaenoic acid (epa) and docosahexaenoic acid (dha) expressed as weight percentage of total fa) has recently been proposed as a new risk factor for death from coronary artery disease, especially following sudden cardiac arrest (sca). the omega-3 index: from biomarker to risk marker to risk factor. the purpose of this review is to examine the extent to which biomarkers like the omega-3 index qualify as coronary heart disease risk markers and/or risk factors based on new criteria from the american heart association and older guidelines proposed in 1965 by sir austin bradford hill. based on these observations, the omega-3 index (eicosapentaenoic acid + docosahexaenoic acid in cell membranes of rbc expressed as percent of total fa) has been suggested as a new risk marker for cardiac death. omega-3 fatty acids and cardiovascular disease: a case for omega-3 index as a new risk factor. in as much as blood levels are a strong reflection of dietary intake, it is proposed that an omega-3 fa biomarker, the omega-3 index (erythrocyte epa+dha) be considered at least a marker, if not a risk factor, for coronary heart disease, especially sudden cardiac death. based on the scientific evidence just mentioned, we propose a new risk factor to be considered for sudden cardiac death, the omega-3 index. an omega-3 index of >8% is associated with 90% less risk for sudden cardiac death, as compared to an omega-3 index of <4%. the omega-3 index: a new risk factor for death from coronary heart disease? the omega-3 index may represent a novel, physiologically relevant, easily modified, independent, and graded risk factor for death from chd that could have significant clinical utility.
May mean platelet volume levels be a predictor in the diagnosis of pelvic inflammatory disease? [SEP] may mean platelet volume levels be a predictor in the diagnosis of pelvic inflammatory disease? our aim in this study was to investigate whether mean platelet volume (mpv) value could be used as an early marker to predict pelvic inflammatory disease (pid). overall, 44 patients with pid and 44 healthy women were included in the study. owing to the fact that it would affect thrombocyte function, women who have the following conditions were excluded from the study: women who were taking anticoagulant therapy, oral contraceptives, nonsteroid anti-inflammatory medications and who had chronic diseases. the leukocyte count, platelet count, neutrophil ratio and mpv values were collected from pid and the control group. c reactive protein values of patients with pid were also noted. this reduction in mpv is statistically significant when the pid patient group is compared with the control group (p < 0.001). a negative correlation was discovered between platelet count and mpv values (p = 0.019, r = - 0.425). receiver-operating curve analysis pointed out that mpv has greater area under curve value than neutrophil rate, leukocyte and platelet count (0.73, 0.64, 0.72 and 0.49 respectively). since the mpv value was significantly decreased in patients with pid, it may serve as an additional and even more valuable marker than leukocyte count in the diagnosis of pid.
Do cytokine concentrations in pancreatic juice predict the presence of pancreatic diseases? [SEP] a minimally invasive and simple screening test for detection of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma using biomarkers in duodenal juice. the aim of this study was to establish a minimally invasive and simple screening test for detection of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (pdac) using duodenal juice (dj). do cytokine concentrations in pancreatic juice predict the presence of pancreatic diseases? cytokine concentration in pancreatic juice of patients with pancreatic disease is unknown. we aimed to evaluate the cytokine concentrations in pancreatic juice of patients with abdominal pain to discriminate presence from absence of pancreatic disease. pancreatic juice levels of interleukin-8, interleukin-6, intercellular adhesion molecule 1, and transforming growth factor-beta 1 were measured by modified enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. multivariate analysis revealed that only interleukin-8 was able to discriminate between normal pancreas and chronic pancreatitis (p = .011), pancreatic cancer (p = .044), and the presence of pancreatic diseases (p = .007). individual cytokine concentrations were not significantly different in chronic pancreatitis compared with pancreatic cancer. cytokine levels can be measured in pancreatic juice obtained from the duodenum without direct cannulation of the pancreatic duct. interleukin-8 concentration in pancreatic juice can be used to discriminate between normal pancreas and patients with pancreatic disease.
Does the sex of acute stroke patients influence the effectiveness of rt-PA? [SEP] effects of sex on imaging-based intravenous thrombolysis for ischaemic stroke with unknown onset time: a pooled analysis of clinical trials. we aimed to investigate whether outcomes among patients with stroke with an unknown onset time and treated with imaging-based intravenous thrombolysis are influenced by their sex. baseline national institutes of health stroke scale score was higher and hours from last-known-well to treatment were longer for women than for men. however, multivariate adjustment revealed a non-significant association between female sex and favourable outcome (adjusted odds ratio: 1.04 [95% confidence interval: 0.66-1.52],  pooled data from the included clinical trials showed that women with ischaemic stroke with an unknown onset time had worse functional outcomes following imaging-based intravenous thrombolysis than did men. sex differences in the dual antiplatelet therapy versus alteplase for patients with minor nondisabling acute ischemic stroke: a secondary analysis of the aramis study. sex is associated with clinical outcome in stroke. the present study aimed to determine the effect of sex on efficacy of dual antiplatelet (dapt) versus alteplase in ischemic stroke based on antiplatelet versus recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (r-tpa) for acute mild ischemic stroke (aramis) trial. in this secondary analysis of the aramis study, eligible patients aged 18 years or older with minor nondisabling stroke who received dual antiplatelet therapy or intravenous alteplase within 4.5 h of stroke onset were divided into two groups: men and women. sex did not influence the effect of dual antiplatelet therapy versus intravenous alteplase in minor nondisabling stroke, but more early neurological deterioration and bleeding events occurred in men who received alteplase. stroke severity (national institutes of health stroke scale, adjor, 0.86 [95% ci, 0.85-0.87]), age (61-70 years: adjor, 0.67 [95% ci, 0.55-0.80], 71-80 years: adjor, 0.42 [95% ci, 0.35-0.50], >80 years: adjor, 0.16 [95% ci, 0.13-0.20]), female sex (adjor, 0.89 [95% ci, 0.79-0.99]), and various comorbidities (eg, atrial fibrillation, prior stroke, diabetes) were negatively associated.
Are head and neck specific quality of life measures necessary? [SEP] mapping the neglected topic in head and neck paraganglioma research: a prisma scoping review on quality of life. chronic rhinosinusitis (crs) has an impact on health related quality of life (hrqol). the results revealed that chronic sinusitis has a significant impact on a person's quality of life reflected in the vitality, mental health, social activities, physical pain and perceived health status of patients also a positive correlation emerged between functional endoscopic sinus surgery (fess) and improvement not only in symptomatology but also overall quality of life. electronic health in the palliative care pathway for patients with head and neck cancer. the expert center of palliative care for head and neck cancer offers structural attention to patients' complex physical and psychosocial care needs. to provide insight into the experiences of patients with head and neck cancer and their next of kin with a hybrid palliative care pathway. the experiences of patients with head and neck cancer in the palliative phase as of june 2022 and next of kin of patients who had died between june 2021 and march 2022 were evaluated using a patient-reported experience measure that included open-ended questions. predicting maximum occlusal force and tongue pressure using decision tree analysis in patients diagnosed with head and neck tumors. preserving and restoring oral functions, especially mastication and swallowing, is important to the quality of life of patients being treated for head and neck tumors. the purpose of this clinical study was to develop a decision tree model for predicting maximum occlusal force and tongue pressure in patients diagnosed with head and neck tumors that could help both experienced and less experienced prosthodontists and oral surgeons optimize the treatment plan and support patient compliance and their quality of life.
Diabetes mellitus among Swedish art glass workers--an effect of arsenic exposure? [SEP] diabetes mellitus among swedish art glass workers--an effect of arsenic exposure? the purpose of this study was to search for evidence of an association between occupational arsenic exposure and diabetes mellitus, as implied by the relation of this disease to arsenic in drinking water in a recent study from taiwan. a case-referent analysis on death records of 5498 individuals in the art glass producing part of southeastern sweden was performed. according to occupational title, glassblowers, foundry workers, and unspecified workers were regarded as potentially exposed to arsenic. persons with a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus either as an underlying or contributing cause of death were considered cases. a slightly elevated risk [mantel-haenszel odds ratio (mh-or) 1.2, 95% confidence interval (95% ci) 0.82-1.8] was found for diabetes mellitus among the glassworks employees, especially in combination with cardiovascular disease (mh-or 1.4, 95% ci 0.81-2.3). for the glassblowers, other foundry workers and unspecified glassworkers probably exposed to arsenic, the m-h odds ratio was 1.4 (95% ci 0.92-2.2). unspecified glass workers, who probably included persons with high exposure, carried the higher risk (mh-or 1.8, 95% ci 1.1-2.8). the observations from this study provide limited support for the possibility that occupational arsenic exposure could play a role in the development of diabetes mellitus. many other metallic compounds are also used in art glass production, however, and there is a possibility of confounding.
Does SYNTAX score predict in-hospital outcomes in patients with ST elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention? [SEP] short-term prognostic value of the culprit-syntax score in patients with acute myocardial infarction. systemic immune-inflammatory index is associated with residual syntax score in patients with st-segment elevation myocardial infarction. our aim was to investigate the relationship between the systemic immune-inflammatory index and residual syntax score in patients with st-segment elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention. the severity of coronary artery diseases was determined by residual syntax score. prognostic value of the syntax score on myocardial injury and salvage in stemi patients after primary percutaneous coronary intervention: a single-center retrospective observational study. syntax score (ss) was shown to positively correlate with postprocedural myocardial injury in patients after elective coronary artery intervention, but evidence about the association of ss with myocardial salvage in st-segment elevation myocardial infarction (stemi) patients is still needed. in stemi patients undergoing primary pci, syntax score positively correlated with infarct size and negatively with myocardial salvage, indicating an independent predictive value of the myocardial injury. utility of logistic clinical syntax score in prediction of in-hospital mortality in st-elevation myocardial infarction patients undergoing emergent coronary artery bypass graft surgery. usefulness of updated logistic clinical syntax score based on mi-syntax score in patients with st-elevation myocardial infarction. to compare the predictive performances of the prewiring, postwiring mi-syntax scores, prewiring, and postwiring updated logistic clinical syntax score (lcss) for 2-year all-cause mortality post percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) in st-elevation myocardial infarction (stemi) patients.
Is micro-computed tomography reliable to determine the microstructure of the maxillary alveolar bone? [SEP] effect of radiation cross-linked collagen scaffold in alveolar ridge preservation of extraction socket. this study aimed to evaluate the properties of radiation cross-linked collagen scaffold (rcs) and its efficacy for alveolar ridge preservation (arp). micro-computed tomography (micro-ct) scans, performed after 1, 4, and 12 weeks of surgery, were to assess changes in ridge height at buccal and palatal side, in ridge width and in micromorphological parameters. dimensional changes in treatment group revealed significantly greater vertical height at buccal (5.32 [3.37, 7.26] mm, p < .0001) and palatal (4.37 [2.66, 6.09] mm, p < .0001) side, and horizontal width at the maxilla (0.16 [0.04, 0.28] mm, p < .01) and mandible (0.33 [0.11, 0.54] mm, p < .01) than those in sham operation group after 12 weeks. is micro-computed tomography reliable to determine the microstructure of the maxillary alveolar bone? to analyze the reliability of micro-computed tomography (micro-ct) to assess bone density and the microstructure of the maxillary bones at the alveolar process in human clinics by direct comparison with conventional stereologic-based histomorphometry. analysis of osseous microstructural variables including bone volumetric density (bv/tv) of 39 biopsies from the maxillary alveolar bone was performed by micro-ct. percentages of bone between micro-ct and conventional stereologic-based histomorphometry were compared. bv/tv assessed by micro-ct correlates with the percentage of bone assessed by conventional stereologic-based histomorphometry. micro-ct is a reliable technique to determine the bone density and the microstructure of the maxillary alveolar bone at the site of dental implant insertion.
Does frozen section alter surgical management of multinodular thyroid disease? [SEP] does frozen section alter surgical management of multinodular thyroid disease? frozen section (fs) evaluation during thyroid surgery is often used to guide intraoperative management. we sought to determine the utility of fs in patients undergoing thyroidectomy for multinodular thyroid disease. from may 1994 through november 2004, 236 patients with multinodular goiter underwent thyroidectomy at our institution. patient data were retrospectively analyzed to see if a frozen section was performed during the procedure and whether it changed the patient's outcome. while fs was commonly used in patients undergoing thyroidectomy at our institution, in no patient over the last decade did fs correctly alter the intraoperative management. the utility of routine frozen section examination for intraoperative diagnosis of thyroid cancer. the value of routine frozen section examination for intraoperative diagnosis of thyroid cancer and determination of extent of thyroidectomy is controversial and needs to be evaluated on an institution to institution basis. a prospective evaluation of 76 patients with nodular thyroid disease who had an adequate fine needle aspiration biopsy (fnab) underwent thyroidectomy with routine thyroid frozen section examination. in patients with an adequate fnab, frozen section examination rarely affected intraoperative decision making in thyroid surgery and its routine use was not cost effective.
Could chest wall rigidity be a factor in rapid death from illicit fentanyl abuse? [SEP] could chest wall rigidity be a factor in rapid death from illicit fentanyl abuse? there has been a significant spike in fentanyl-related deaths from illicit fentanyl supplied via the heroin trade. rapid intravenous (iv) fentanyl can produce chest wall rigidity. we evaluated post-mortem fentanyl and norfentanyl concentrations in a recent surge of lethal fentanyl intoxications. fentanyl related deaths from the franklin county coroner's office from january to september 2015 were identified. the lack of any measurable norfentanyl in half of our cases suggests a very rapid death, consistent with acute chest rigidity. acute chest wall rigidity is a well-recognized complication in the medical community but unknown within the drug abuse community. in summary we believe sudden onset chest wall rigidity may be a significant and previously unreported factor leading to an increased mortality, from illicit iv fentanyl use. fentanyl and norfentanyl ratios and concentrations suggest a more rapid onset of death given the finding of fentanyl without norfentanyl in many of the fatalities. chest wall rigidity may help explain the cause of death in these instances, in contrast to the typical opioid-related overdose deaths.
Is severe pain immediately after spinal augmentation a predictor of long-term outcomes? [SEP] is severe pain immediately after spinal augmentation a predictor of long-term outcomes? severe, immediate postprocedural pain and the need for analgesics after vertebroplasty can be a discouraging experience for patients and caregivers. the goal of this study was to investigate whether the presence of severe pain immediately after vertebroplasty predicts short- and long-term pain relief. a chart review was performed to categorize patients regarding pain severity and analgesic usage immediately after vertebroplasty (< 4 h). "severe" pain was defined as at least 8 of 10 with the 10-point vas. outcomes were pain severity and pain medication score and usage at 1 month and 1 year after vertebroplasty. of the 429 vertebroplasty procedures identified, 69 (16%) were associated with severe pain, and 133 (31%) were associated with analgesic administration immediately after the procedure. the group experiencing severe pain had higher preprocedure median vas rest pain scores (5 [iqr, 2-7]) and activity pain scores (10 [iqr, 8-10]) compared with patients who did not experience severe pain (3 [iqr, 1-6]; p = .0208, and 8 [iqr, 7-10]; p = .0263, respectively). at 1 month postprocedure, vas rest and activity pain scores were similar between the severe pain group and the nonsevere pain group (p = .16 and p = .25, respectively) and between the group receiving pain medication and the group not receiving pain medication (p = .25 and p = .67, respectively). patients with severe pain immediately after vertebroplasty have similar long-term outcomes compared with patients without severe pain.
Can computerised tomography replace bone scintigraphy in detecting bone metastases from breast cancer? [SEP] diagnostic performance of (18)f-fluorodeoxyglucose pet/ct and bone scintigraphy in breast cancer patients with suspected bone metastasis. we prospectively compared the diagnostic accuracies of pet/ct and bs in patients with suspected bone metastases from breast cancer. our results indicated that pet/ct was superior to bs for the diagnosis of bone metastases. the diagnostic imaging of bone metastases. we aimed to compare the role of (18)f-fluoride pet/ct, fdg pet/ct and (99m)tc-mdp bone scans in the detection of bone metastases in patients with lung, breast and prostate carcinoma. seventy-two patients (23s, 49r) with infiltrating ductal breast carcinoma, 49 patients (25s, 24r) with prostate adenocarcinoma and 30 patients (17s, 13r) with non-small-cell lung carcinoma (nsclc), without known bone metastases but with high risk/clinical suspicion for the same, underwent a (99m)tc-mdp bone scan, fdg pet/ct and (18)f-fluoride pet/ct within 2 weeks. this case report shows: first, that progressive osteoblastic lesions can lack fdg-avidity, leading to a false-negative pet; and secondly, that bone scintigraphy should not be replaced by fdg-pet/ct for the detection of bone metastases in breast cancer. can computerised tomography replace bone scintigraphy in detecting bone metastases from breast cancer? the aim of this study was to determine whether bone scans (bs) can be avoided if pelvis was included in ct thorax and abdomen to detect bony metastases from breast cancer. ct detected metastatic bone lesions in 43 (98%) of 44 patients with bone metastases.
Does obesity impact the pattern and outcome of trauma in children? [SEP] furthermore, this review examines how comorbidities impact msc function and quality and explores the potential of mscs in treating orthopedic conditions complicated by diabetes, obesity, smoking, and infections, which can hinder the healing process. disease burden attributable to intimate partner violence against females and sexual violence against children in 204 countries and territories, 1990-2023: a systematic analysis for the global burden of disease study 2023. quantifying the fatal and non-fatal burden of disease associated with child growth failure, 2000-2023: a systematic analysis from the global burden of disease study 2023. child growth failure (cgf), which includes underweight, wasting, and stunting, is among the factors most strongly associated with mortality and morbidity in children younger than 5 years worldwide. poor height and bodyweight gain arise from a variety of biological and sociodemographic factors and are associated with increased vulnerability to infectious diseases. compared to stunting (33·0 million [24·1-42·2] dalys, 373 000 [272 000-477 000] deaths) and wasting (39·2 million [23·8-53·0] dalys, 428 000 [256 000-583 000] deaths), childhood underweight was associated with the largest share of cgf-related disease burden: 52·2 million (21·9-75·1) dalys and 573 000 (236 000-824 000) deaths in children younger than 5 years in 2023. cgf remains a leading factor associated with death and disability in children younger than 5 years, despite global attention and focused interventions to reduce the prevalence of associated cgf indicators. for more than three decades, the global burden of diseases, injuries, and risk factors study (gbd) has provided a framework to quantify health loss due to diseases, injuries, and associated risk factors. this paper presents gbd 2023 findings on disease and injury burden and risk-attributable health loss, offering a global audit of the state of world health to inform public health priorities. topics included common illnesses (e.g., cough, diarrhea), trauma management, obesity, and behavioral issues such as self-regulation and temper tantrums.
Is non-invasive diagnosis of esophageal varices in patients with compensated hepatic cirrhosis possible by duplex Doppler ultrasonography? [SEP] is non-invasive diagnosis of esophageal varices in patients with compensated hepatic cirrhosis possible by duplex doppler ultrasonography? esophageal varices are present in 30% to 40% of patients in compensated cirrhosis (child-pugh class a) and in 60% to 85% of patients in decompensated cirrhosis (child-pugh classes b and c). it is important to identify patients with compensated cirrhosis at risk for esophageal varix development. we evaluated the accuracy of a duplex doppler ultrasonographic index for predicting the presence or absence of esophageal varices in patients with compensated hepatic cirrhosis (child-pugh class a) by using endoscopy as the reference standard. fifty-six enrolled patients underwent duplex doppler ultrasonography followed by screening endoscopy. mean portal vein velocity (pvv), splenic index (si), splenoportal index (spi), hepatic and splenic arterial resistive, and pulsatility indices (hepatic artery resistive index [hari], hepatic artery pulsatility index [hapi], splenic artery resistive index [sari], splenic artery pulsatility index [sapi]) were recorded. mean pvv, si, and spi were all predictive of the presence of esophageal varices (p < 0.05) and spi was found to be the most accurate parameter. for the 28 patients with spi <5.0, the absence of esophageal varices in 27 of them could be correctly diagnosed using only spi without invasive screening endoscopy, with high negative predictive value (96%) and sensitivity (96%). of the remaining 28 patients with spi ≥5.0, presence of esophageal varices could be similarly correctly diagnosed in 22 of them by using spi without screening endoscopy, with high positive predictive value (79%) and specificity (82%). the spi was accurate in predicting the presence or absence of esophageal varices in patients with compensated cirrhosis.
Is (18)F-FDG a surrogate tracer to measure tumor hypoxia? [SEP] is (18)f-fdg a surrogate tracer to measure tumor hypoxia? comparison with the hypoxic tracer (14)c-ef3 in animal tumor models. fluorodeoxyglucose (fdg) has been reported as a surrogate tracer to measure tumor hypoxia with positron emission tomography (pet). this study aimed to compare the tracers (14)c-ef3 and (18)f-fdg to detect hypoxia in mouse tumor models. this study showed that fdg is not a good surrogate tracer for tumor hypoxia under either ambient or hypoxic conditions. only specific hypoxia tracers should be used to measure tumor hypoxia. here, we compare the oxygenation-dependent retention of fluoroazomycin arabinoside ([(18)f]faza), a promising but not well-characterised hypoxia-specific tracer, and fluorodeoxyglucose ([(18)f]fdg) in four carcinoma cell lines. although less pronounced, [(18)f]faza also showed superior in vivo hypoxia specificity compared with [(18)f]fdg. [(18)f]faza displays excellent in vitro characteristics for hypoxia imaging including modest cell-to-cell line variability and no binding in oxic cells. in contrast, the usability of [(18)f]fdg as a surrogate marker for hypoxia is questionable due to large variations in baseline (oxic) glucose metabolism and magnitudes of the pasteur effects.
Can dogs prime autistic children for therapy? [SEP] can dogs prime autistic children for therapy? canine-assisted therapy has been receiving growing attention as a means of aiding children with autism spectrum disorder (asd). yet, only limited studies have been done and a great deal of literature related to this intervention is anecdotal. the present study aims at providing additional quantitative evidence on the potential of dogs to positively modulate the behavior of children with asd. a 12-year-old boy diagnosed with asd was exposed, at his usual treatment location (the portuguese association for developmental disorders and autism at vila nova de gaia, portugal), to the following treatment conditions: (1) one-to-one structured activities with a therapist assisted by a certified therapy dog, and (2) one-to-one structured activities with the same therapist alone (as a control). to accurately assess differences in the behavior of the participant between these treatment conditions, the therapist followed a strict research protocol. treatment outcomes: in the presence of the dog, the participant exhibited more frequent and longer durations of positive behaviors (such as smiling and positive physical contacting) as well as less frequent and shorter durations of negative behaviors (such as aggressive manifestations). these findings are in accordance with previous experimental work and provide additional support for the assertion that dogs can prime autistic children for therapy. ultimately, this study may contribute toward a change for full acceptance of canine-assisted therapy programs within the medical milieu. additional studies using a similar research protocol on more autistic children will certainly help professionals to work on the most effective methods to individually serve this population through canine-assisted interventions.
Are 99mTc leukocyte scintigraphy and SBFT studies useful in children suspected of having inflammatory bowel disease? [SEP] are 99mtc leukocyte scintigraphy and sbft studies useful in children suspected of having inflammatory bowel disease? the goal of this retrospective study was to assess whether 99mtc-white blood cell (wbc) scintigraphy and upper gastrointestinal small bowel follow-through (ugi-sbft) could exclude inflammation in children suspected of having inflammatory bowel disease (ibd). of a population of 313 children who had a 99mtc-wbc scan, 130 children were studied exclusively to rule out ibd. sixty-nine colonoscopies with biopsies were done within a short time interval of the 99mtc-wbc scans. of the 130 children studied to exclude ibd, the final diagnosis was crohn's disease in 27, ulcerative colitis in nine, miscellaneous colitis in 13, probably normal in 42, and normal in 39. the 99mtc-wbc scans were positive in all but three newly diagnosed crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, or miscellaneous colitis children. the false-negative 99mtc-wbc studies were seen in children with mild inflammation on biopsies and normal ugi-sbft studies. in the 46 children with a true-positive 99mtc-wbc scan, 81% (17/21) of ugi-sbft studies were normal. in five children with equivocal ugi-sbft studies, the 99mtc-wbc scan correctly predicted if inflammation was present in the terminal ileum. our results suggest that 99mtc-wbc is useful as an initial screening modality to exclude ibd, and is more sensitive than ugi-sbft studies.
Risk factors for avascular necrosis of bone in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus: is there a role for antiphospholipid antibodies? [SEP] 
Prostate bed target interfractional motion using RTOG consensus definitions and daily CT on rails : Does target motion differ between superior and inferior portions of the clinical target volume? [SEP] 
Esophagogastric devascularization without splenectomy in portal hypertension: safe and effective? [SEP] partial splenectomy and pericardial devascularization for symptomatic patients with portal hypertension: a single-center retrospective study. the learning curve of laparoscopic splenectomy and esophagogastric devascularization for portal hypertension with 10-year follow-up. laparoscopic splenectomy and esophagogastric devascularization (lsed) are minimally invasive, effective, and safe in treating esophageal-fundic variceal bleeding with portal hypertension (pht). efficacy, feasibility and safety of tips in the treatment of recurrent portal hypertension with variceal bleeding after open splenectomy and esophagogastric devascularization. laparoscopic splenectomy and esophagogastric devascularization combined with fast-track principles offers greater benefit for patients with portal hypertension. laparoscopic splenectomy and esophagogastric devascularization (lsed) is becoming increasingly popular in the treatment of esophageal-fundic variceal bleeding with portal hypertension (pht) in china, and its high safety and minimal trauma have been proven. recent reports have shown laparoscopic gastric devascularization and splenectomy (hassab's procedure) to be a safe and effective treatment for esophagogastric varices with portal hypertension. long-term outcomes of oesophagogastric devascularization and splenectomy in patients with portal hypertension and liver cirrhosis. laparoscopic selective esophagogastric devascularization and splenectomy for patients with cirrhotic portal hypertension. the role of laparoscopic selective esophagogastric devascularization and splenectomy (lsegds) in the treatment of esophagogastric variceal bleeding and hypersplenism in patients with cirrhotic portal hypertension has not been well studied.
Does maternal obesity have an influence on feeding behavior of obese children? [SEP] overweight and obesity are well-established risk factors for numerous chronic diseases, but few studies have focused on obesity-related eating behaviours (oeb). maternal obesity predicted shorter breastfeeding duration (p = 0.026). breastfeeding continuation at 12 months was associated with early initiation and negatively influenced by maternal obesity. association between eating behaviours and food and beverage consumption in male and female children aged 3-6 years: the corals cohort. eating behaviours influence food intake and long-term eating habits. eating behaviour traits are clearly associated with diet quality in early childhood. these findings may inform early prevention strategies to encourage healthy eating habits and reduce the risk of childhood overweight and obesity. lipid pathways connecting maternal bmi with infant obesity risk. maternal obesity is a key determinant of infant health, increasing early-life obesity risk. habits at home: how the home food environment shapes caregivers' eating habits.
Is plate clearing a risk factor for obesity? [SEP] obese individuals tend to have an increased bone mineral density, but other studies have shown that obesity is a major risk factor for fractures. regarding the weight-maintenance stage, diminished smi values indicate the presence of more plate-like spongiosa in sedentary and exercise groups. obesity, osteoporosis, and lower instrumented vertebra at sacrum are risk factors for pjk in all the patients. is plate clearing a risk factor for obesity? identifying eating behaviors which contribute to excess weight gain will inform obesity prevention strategies. a tendency to clear one's plate when eating may be a risk factor for obesity in an environment where food is plentiful. whether plate clearing is associated with increased body weight in a cohort of us participants was examined. nine hundred and ninety-three us adults (60% male, 80% american european, mean age=31 years) completed self-report measures of habitual plate clearing together with behavioral and demographic characteristics known to be associated with obesity. plate clearing tendencies were positively associated with bmi and remained so after accounting for a large number of other demographic and behavioral predictors of bmi in analyses (β=0.18, 95% cis=0.07, 0.29, p<0.001); an increased tendency to plate clear was associated with a significantly higher body weight. the tendency to clear one's plate when eating is associated with increased body weight and may constitute a risk factor for weight gain.
Should lower limb fractures be treated surgically in patients with chronic spinal injuries? [SEP] surgical and conservative treatment of lower limb fractures in patients with chronic spinal cord injury. to evaluate the differences between conservative and surgical treatment of long bone fractures in individuals with chronic sci, focusing on wheelchair mobilization, overall hospital days, and complication rates. the study, conducted between 2014 and 2023, compared conservative and surgical treatment for long bone fractures in individuals with chronic sci using descriptive statistics. predictors of lower extremity fracture-related amputation in persons with traumatic spinal cord injury: a case-control study. to identify predictors of lower extremity (le) long bone fracture-related amputation in persons with traumatic spinal cord injury (tsci). the incidence of acute respiratory infection was higher in the older adults with lower limb fracture who receive spinal anesthesia than those who receive general anesthesia. lower extremity fracture prevention and management in persons with spinal cord injuries and disorders: the patient perspective. to describe patient experiences with fracture prevention and management among persons with spinal cord injuries/disorders (sci/d). osteoporosis is a common secondary complication of spinal cord injury, with fragility fractures typically occurring in the lower body and management often is conservative. he subsequently underwent sacroplasty with immediate and full resolution of ad symptoms and return to full premorbid function within 24 h. people with chronic spinal cord injury (sci) are at risk for spinal column fragility fractures in addition to lower extremity fractures.
Is vancomycin MIC creep a worldwide phenomenon? [SEP] evaluation of vancomycin mic creep in methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus infections-a systematic review and meta-analysis. however, an increasing number of mrsa isolates with high mics, within the susceptible range (vancomycin mic creep), are being reported worldwide. resorting to a meta-analysis approach, this study aims to assess the evidence of vancomycin mic creep. however, vancomycin mic creep phenomenon was demonstrated by the increased number of mrsa strains with mic ≥1.5 μg/ml (p = 0.008) between 2011 and 2012. is vancomycin mic creep a worldwide phenomenon? assessment of s. aureus vancomycin mic in a tertiary university hospital. the association of vancomycin treatment failures with increased vancomycin minimum inhibitory concentration (mic) is a well-recognized problem. a number of single-centre studies have identified progressive increases in glycopeptide mics for s. aureus strains over recent years - a phenomenon known as vancomycin mic creep. the aim of this study was to evaluate the trend of vancomycin mic for isolates of mrsa over a 3-year period in a tertiary university hospital in portugal. we were unable to find in our institution data compatible to the presence of vancomycin mic creep during the study period.
Does short-term treatment with proton pump inhibitors cause rebound aggravation of symptoms? [SEP] does short-term treatment with proton pump inhibitors cause rebound aggravation of symptoms? rebound acid hypersecretion might occur after treatment with proton pump inhibitors. this study looks for a rebound aggravation of symptoms after short-term treatment with lansoprazole. sixty-two patients (19 men and 43 women; mean age, 54 years; range, 32-77 years) with heartburn and regurgitation and normal upper endoscopy findings were studied in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial with a crossover design. there were two 5-day treatment periods with lansoprazole 60 mg once daily or placebo in random order, separated by a 9-day washout period. reflux, total, and antacid scores were calculated for each of the treatment periods. higher scores during the placebo period in the group given lansoprazole first than in the group given placebo first indicated a rebound aggravation of symptoms. the mean symptom scores during the placebo period in the groups given lansoprazole first and placebo first were as follows: reflux score, 21.5 and 17.6, respectively (not significant); total score, 11.2 and 10.3, respectively (not significant); and antacid score, 8.2 and 7.2, respectively (not significant). there is no indication of a rebound aggravation of symptoms 12 to 14 days after a 5-day treatment with lansoprazole 60 mg once daily in patients with reflux symptoms.
Do family physicians make good sentinels for influenza? [SEP] do family physicians make good sentinels for influenza? to determine whether volunteer family physician reports of the frequency of influenza-like illness (ili) usefully supplement information from other influenza surveillance systems conducted by the centers for disease control and prevention. evaluation of physician reports from five influenza surveillance seasons (1987-88 through 1991-92). an average of 140 physicians during each of five influenza seasons. a subset of physicians collected specimens for confirmation of influenza virus by culture. in three of five seasons, physicians obtained influenza virus isolates from a greater proportion of specimens compared with those processed by world health organization laboratories (36% vs 12%). influenza virus isolates from sentinel physicians peaked from 1 to 4 weeks earlier than those reported by world health organization laboratories. physicians reported peak morbidity 1 to 4 weeks earlier than state and territorial health departments in four of five seasons and 2 to 5 weeks earlier than peak mortality reported by 121 cities during seasons with excess mortality associated with pneumonia and influenza. family physicians provide sensitive, timely, and accurate community influenza morbidity data that complement data from other surveillance systems. this information enables monitoring of the type, timing, and intensity of influenza activity and can help health care workers implement prevention or control measures.
Aberrant loss of dickkopf-3 in gastric cancer: can it predict lymph node metastasis preoperatively? [SEP] aberrant loss of dickkopf-3 in gastric cancer: can it predict lymph node metastasis preoperatively? dickkopf-3 (dkk3) may act as a tumor suppressor as it is down-regulated in various types of cancer. this study assessed the dkk3 protein expression in gastric cancer and its potential value as a prognostic marker. dkk3 expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 158 gastric cancer samples from patients who underwent gastrectomy from 2002 to 2008. loss of dkk3 expression was found in 64 of 158 (40.5%) samples, and it was associated with advanced t stage (p < 0.001), lymph node metastasis (p < 0.001), uicc tnm stage (p < 0.001), tumor location (p = 0.029), lymphovascular invasion (p = 0.035), and perineural invasion (p = 0.032). patients without dkk3 expression in tumor cells had a significantly worse disease-free and overall survival than those with dkk3 expression (p < 0.001, and p = 0.001, respectively). based on the preoperative clinical stage assessed by computed tomography (ct), loss of dkk3 expression was predominantly associated with worse prognosis in patients with clinically node-negative advanced gastric cancer (agc). the combination of dkk3 expression status and ct increased the accuracy of ct staging for predicting lymph node involvement from 71.5 to 80.0% in agc patients. loss of dkk3 protein expression was significantly associated with poor survival in patients with gastric cancer and was strongly correlated with the tnm stage. dkk3 might be a potential biomarker of lymph node involvement that can improve the predictive power of ct.
Is ganglionated plexi ablation during Maze IV procedure beneficial for postoperative long-term stable sinus rhythm? [SEP] is ganglionated plexi ablation during maze iv procedure beneficial for postoperative long-term stable sinus rhythm? we investigated the role of surgical ablation targeting the autonomous nervous system during a cox-maze iv procedure in the maintenance of sinus rhythm at long-term follow-up. the patient population consisted of 519 subjects with persistent or long-standing persistent atrial fibrillation (af) undergoing radiofrequency maze iv during open heart surgery between january 2006 and july 2013 at three institutions without (group 1) or with (group 2) ganglionated plexi (gp) ablation. recurrence of atrial fibrillation off-antiarrhythmic drugs was the primary outcome. median follow-up was 36.7 months. the percentage of patients in normal sinus rhythm (nsr) off-antiarrhythmic drugs did not differ between groups (group 1-75.5%, group 2-67.8%, p = 0.08). duration of af ≥ 38 months (p = 0.01), left atrial diameter ≥ 54 mm (0.001), left atrial area ≥ 33 cm(2) (p = 0.005), absence of connecting lesions (p= 0.04), and absence of right atrial ablation (p < 0.001) were independently associated with high incidence of af recurrence. in contrast the absence of gp ablation was not a significant factor (p = 0.12). gp ablation did not prove to be beneficial for postoperative stable nsr. a complete left atrial lesion set and biatrial ablation are advisable for improving rhythm outcomes.
Double reading of barium enemas: is it necessary? [SEP] double reading of barium enemas: is it necessary? the purpose of our study was to determine the effectiveness, clinical impact, and feasibility of double reading barium enemas. independent double readings of 1,003 consecutive barium enemas (822 double- and 181 single-contrast examinations) were prospectively performed. for combined readings, results were considered positive if either of the two interpreters reported finding a polyp or carcinoma. a mcnemar test was used to compare the first reader's results with the combined results of the first and second readers. results were retrospectively correlated with endoscopic or surgical results in 360 patients, and agreement between first and combined readings and endoscopic results was determined. adding a second reader increased the number of positive results on examinations from 249 to 315 (p < 0.0001) and resulted in potential alteration of clinical treatment in 98 patients (9.9%). sensitivity of the first and combined readings for detection of all lesions was identical, 76.3% (95% ci, 65.4-87.1%). the second reading required an average of 3.3 min. although feasible, double reading of barium enemas does not improve sensitivity for detection of polyps and produces a higher false-positive rate.
Is severe macrosomia manifested at 11-14 weeks of gestation? [SEP] is severe macrosomia manifested at 11-14 weeks of gestation? to determine the association between fetal biometry in the first or early second trimester and severe macrosomia at delivery. this case-control study included 30 term severely macrosomic neonates; 90 appropriate-for-gestational age (aga) neonates served as controls. all pregnancies underwent nuchal translucency (nt) screening at 11-14 weeks' gestation. pregnancies were dated by accurate last menstrual period consistent with crown-rump length (crl) measurements at the time of screening, early pregnancy crl or date of fertilization. the association between birth weight and the difference between the measured and the expected crl at the time of nt screening was analyzed. the difference between measured and expected crl, expressed both in mm and in days of gestation, was statistically greater in the severely macrosomic neonates compared with controls (mean, 6.66 +/- 4.78 mm vs. 1.17 +/- 4.6 mm, p < 0.0001 and 3 +/- 2.2 days vs. 0.5 +/- 2.3 days, p < 0.0001, respectively). furthermore, there were significant correlations between the extent of macrosomia and the discrepancy between expected and measured fetal size at the time of nt screening (r = 0.47, p < 0.01 and r = 0.48, p < 0.01, respectively). severe macrosomia apparently manifests as early as 11-14 weeks' gestation.
Do older adults with cancer fall more often? [SEP] unique challenges in sarcoma care for adolescents and young adults. the association was greatest among adults aged 20–39 years old. determining the association between hearing disability and injury risk in older adults using propensity score matching: quasi-experimental study. with rapid population aging, both traumatic injuries and hearing disability have become increasingly prevalent among older adults. during the follow-up period, older adults with hearing disability had a significantly higher risk of injury admission compared with those without hearing disability (hazard ratio=1.21, 95% ci 1.14-1.28; p<.001). hearing disability in older adults is independently associated with increased injury admission risk, with greater severity conferring a higher risk and variation by injury site. navigating cancer: insights from patient journey mapping. the impact of transitioning to virtual fall-prevention programs on falls and social connectedness in community-dwelling older adults. older adults participating in falls prevention evidence-based programs experience a decrease in falls, loneliness, and social isolation, but virtual implementation may alter the program's reach and effectiveness. community-dwelling older adults (age ≥ 50) completed surveys on falls (omb 0985-0039), loneliness (ucla three-item scale), and social isolation (duke social support index) at baseline, 6 weeks, and 6 months.
Scrotal approach to both palpable and impalpable undescended testes: should it become our first choice? [SEP] scrotal approach to both palpable and impalpable undescended testes: should it become our first choice? to determine the advantages of scrotal incision in the treatment of undescended testis. undescended testis is a common pediatric condition and is conventionally managed surgically by orchidopexy. a single scrotal incision orchidopexy has become accepted as a valid approach for patients with palpable undescended testicles. because this approach also allows easy detection of atrophic testes or testicular remnants, it recently has also emerged as an alternative initial surgical approach to impalpable undescended testicles. in all cases a scrotal approach was chosen irrespective of the initial position or presence of an open processus vaginalis. overall, 36 of the 46 impalpable testicles (78%) could be diagnosed and treated accordingly, using only a scrotal incision. in all cases, the testes were palpable and remained in the scrotum on follow-up. initial single scrotal incision can be recommended for orchidopexy, even in the more difficult cases of impalpable undescended testes. the scrotal incision technique significantly reduces the need for laparoscopy in impalpable testes.
Is grandmultiparity an independent risk factor for adverse perinatal outcomes? [SEP] grandmultiparas had approximately 2-fold increased risk of gestational diabetes, hypertensive disorders, malpresentation, and preterm delivery, and a 3-fold increased risk of abruption; none reached statistical significance. our study shows a trend toward an increased risk of adverse obstetrical outcome in grandmultiparas compared with multiparas independent of maternal age. is grandmultiparity an independent risk factor for adverse perinatal outcomes? to compare maternal and neonatal outcomes among grandmultiparous women to those of multiparous women 30 years or older. maternal and neonatal pregnancy outcomes of grandmultiparous women were compared to multiparous women who were 30 years or older at the time of their last birth. after controlling for potential confounding factors, grandmultiparous women were at significantly higher risk for abruptio placentae (odds ratio or: 1.3; 95% confidence intervals ci: 1.2-1.5), preterm delivery (or: 1.3; 95% ci: 1.2-1.4), fetal macrosomia (or: 1.5; 95% ci: 1.4-1.6), neonatal death (or: 1.5; 95% ci: 1.3-1.8), postpartum hemorrhage (or: 1.2; 95% ci: 1.1-1.3) and blood transfusion (or: 1.5; 95% ci: 1.3-1.8). grandmultiparous women had increased maternal and neonatal morbidity, and neonatal mortality even after controlling for confounders, suggesting a need for closer observation than regular multiparous patients during labor and delivery. extreme grandmultiparity: is it an obstetric risk factor? to examine the perinatal outcome in women of extreme grandmultiparity (egmp) in a setting with good socio-economic conditions and modern perinatal care. extreme grandmultiparity does not appear to be an independent risk factor for adverse perinatal outcome in the setting of good perinatal care.
Does the investing layer of the deep cervical fascia exist? [SEP] in the absence of muscular fibers, a fascial adhesion zone with limited mobility was observed where the superficial cervical fascia fused with the investing layer of the deep cervical fascia. the cervicofacial branch divided into its own branches, including the marginal mandibular nerve (mmn), which ran within the investing (superficial) layer of the deep cervical fascia. does the investing layer of the deep cervical fascia exist? although the investing cervical fascia has been considered as an impenetrable barrier, clinically, the placement of the block deep or superficial to the fascia provides the same effective anesthesia. using a combination of dissection, e12 sheet plastination, and confocal microscopy, fascial structures in the anterior cervical triangle were examined in 10 adult human cadavers. in the upper cervical region, the fascia of strap muscles in the middle and the fasciae of the submandibular glands on both sides formed a dumbbell-like fascia sheet that had free lateral margins and did not continue with the sternocleidomastoid fascia. the fascial structure deep to platysma in the anterior cervical triangle comprised the strap fascia. this study provides anatomical evidence to indicate that the so-called investing cervical fascia does not exist in the anterior triangle of the neck. the investing layer of the deep cervical fascia does not exist between the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscles. the investing layer of the deep cervical fascia is incomplete so that the carotid sheath is directly exposed to the subcutaneous tissue via a gap between the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscle.
Is crime associated with over-the-counter pharmacy syringe sales? [SEP] is crime associated with over-the-counter pharmacy syringe sales? injection drug users represent twelve percent of incident hiv infections each year. pharmacy sales of over-the-counter (otc) syringes have helped prevent hiv transmission among injection drug users in many states throughout the united states. however, concerns exist among some law enforcement officials, policymakers, pharmacists, and community members about potential links between otc syringe sales and crime. we used a geographic information system and novel spatial and longitudinal analyses to determine whether implementation of pharmacy-based otc syringe sales were associated with reported crime between january 2006 and december 2008 in los angeles police department reporting districts. we assessed reported crime pre- and post-otc syringe sales initiation as well as longitudinal associations between crime and otc syringe-selling pharmacies. by december 2008, 9.3% (94/1010) of los angeles police department reporting districts had at least one otc syringe-selling pharmacy. overall reported crime counts and reported crime rates decreased between 2006 and 2008 in all 1010 reporting districts. using generalized estimating equations and adjusting for potential confounders, reported crime rates were negatively associated with otc syringe sales (adjusted rate ratio: 0.89; 95% confidence interval: 0.81, 0.99). our findings demonstrate that otc pharmacy syringe sales were not associated with increases in reported crime in local communities in los angeles during 2006-2008.
Is double-balloon enteroscopy an accurate method to diagnose small-bowel disorders? [SEP] tertiary referral for double balloon enteroscopy in small bowel crohn's disease: a retrospective assessment of diagnostic impact. double balloon enteroscopy (dbe) directly evaluates the small bowel. several studies have evaluated the utility of double-balloon enteroscopy (dbe) and capsule endoscopy (ce) for patients with small-bowel disease showing inconsistent results. double-balloon enteroscopy: the results of a new experience in iran. double-balloon enteroscopy (dbe) has been created for diagnostic and therapeutic interventions in diseases of the small intestine. the utility of single-balloon enteroscopy for the diagnosis and management of small bowel disorders according to their clinical manifestations: a retrospective review. the advent of double-balloon enteroscopy has enabled more accurate diagnosis and treatment of small bowel disorders. single-balloon enteroscopy was effective for the diagnosis and treatment of small bowel disorders, especially in patients who presented with abdominal pain, gi bleeding, or focal abnormalities on imaging scans. computed tomography enterography versus balloon-assisted enteroscopy for evaluation of small bowel lesions in crohn's disease. we aimed to assess the correlation between computed tomography enterography (cte) and balloon-assisted enteroscopy on severity of small bowel lesions, and evaluated the accuracy of cte parameters in assessing small intestine lesions in patients with crohn's disease (cd).
Does strategy training reduce age-related deficits in working memory? [SEP] however, little is known about whether training can reduce or eliminate age-related deficits in spatial memory. we investigated whether a custom-designed video game involving spatial navigation, obstacle avoidance, and balance control would improve spatial memory in older adults. does strategy training reduce age-related deficits in working memory? older adults typically perform worse on measures of working memory (wm) than do young adults; however, age-related differences in wm performance might be reduced if older adults use effective encoding strategies. participants in the training group (older adults: n = 39; young adults: n = 41) were taught about various verbal encoding strategies and their differential effectiveness and were trained to use interactive imagery and sentence generation on a list-learning task. both young and older adults were able to use the target strategies on the wm task and showed gains in wm performance after training. the age-related wm deficit was not greatly affected, however, and the training gains did not transfer to the other cognitive tasks. in fact, participants attempted to adapt the trained strategies for a paired-associate recall task, but the increased strategy use did not benefit their performance. strategy training can boost wm performance, and its benefits appear to arise from strategy-specific effects and not from domain-general gains in cognitive ability. improved task accuracies for long delay intervals in a delayed matching-to-sample task of working memory.
Does the SCL 90-R obsessive-compulsive dimension identify cognitive impairments? [SEP] does the scl 90-r obsessive-compulsive dimension identify cognitive impairments? to investigate the relevance of the symptom checklist 90-r obsessive-compulsive subscale to cognition in individuals with brain tumor. a prospective study of patients assessed with a neuropsychological test battery. a university medical center. nineteen adults with biopsy-confirmed diagnoses of malignant brain tumors were assessed prior to aggressive chemotherapy. included in the assessment were the mattis dementia rating scale, california verbal learning test, trail making test b, symptom checklist 90-r, mood assessment scale, beck anxiety inventory, and chronic illness problem inventory. the scl 90-r obsessive-compulsive subscale was not related to objective measures of attention, verbal memory, or age. it was related significantly to symptoms of depression (r = .81, p < .005), anxiety (r = .66, p < .005), and subjective complaints of memory problems (r = .75, p < .005). multivariate analyses indicated that reported symptoms of depression contributed 66% of the variance in predicting scl 90-r obsessive-compulsive scores, whereas symptoms of anxiety contributed an additional 6% (p < .0001). our data suggest that the scl 90-r is best viewed as an indicator of unidimensional emotional distress and somatic effects of structural brain injury.
Is fetal anatomic assessment on follow-up antepartum sonograms clinically useful? [SEP] is fetal anatomic assessment on follow-up antepartum sonograms clinically useful? the purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical usefulness of a fetal anatomic survey on follow-up antepartum sonograms. a retrospective follow-up study was conducted at a low-risk maternity clinic from july 1, 2005, to june 30, 2006. eligible women had at least 1 prior sonographic examination beyond 18 weeks' gestation with a complete and normal fetal anatomic assessment and at least 1 follow-up sonogram. full fetal anatomic surveys were performed on all follow-up sonograms regardless of the indication. neonatal charts were reviewed for those patients whose follow-up sonograms revealed unanticipated fetal anomalies. neonatal intervention was defined as surgical or medical therapy or arranged subspecialty follow-up specifically for the suspected fetal anomaly. compared with follow-up sonography for other reasons, repeated sonography for fetal growth evaluation yielded a higher incidence of unexpected fetal anomalies: 15 (12.3%) of 122 versus 6 (3.5%) of 172 (p = .01). when compared with the neonates in the nongrowth indications group, those neonates whose mothers had sonographic examinations for fetal growth had a higher rate of neonatal interventions: 6 (40.0%) of 15 versus 0 (0%) of 6 (p = .04). a fetal anatomic survey on follow-up sonograms may identify unanticipated fetal anomalies, especially when the indication is for fetal growth.
Is muscle power related to running speed with changes of direction? [SEP] effects of sprint and change-of-direction training with or without the racket in young tennis players. the importance of core strength for change of direction speed. change of direction speed (cods) is determined by several physical aspects, such as linear sprint speed, reactive strength and power of leg muscles. these findings indicate that core muscle strength contributes significantly to the change of direction speed. muscle oscillations contained more higher frequency components at fast running (50% signal power in frequencies below ~ 14 hz) compared with slow walking (50% signal power contained in frequencies below ~ 5 hz). metabolic power requirement of change of direction speed in young soccer players: not all is what it seems. the aims of this study were to 1) compare the metabolic power demand of straight-line and change of direction (cod) sprints including 45° or 90°-turns, and 2) examine the relation between estimated metabolic demands and muscular activity throughout the 3 phases of cod-sprints. these results also highlight the dissociation between metabolic and muscle activity demands during cod-sprints, which questions the use of metabolic power as a single measure of running load in soccer. to describe cross-sectional age differences in change-of-direction performance (codp) in female football players and investigate the relationship between codp and linear-sprint speed, muscle power, and body size. linear-sprint speed, muscle power, and body size were weakly correlated with the age differences in codp.
Can magnetic resonance imaging accurately predict concordant pain provocation during provocative disc injection? [SEP] can magnetic resonance imaging accurately predict concordant pain provocation during provocative disc injection? to correlate magnetic resonance (mr) image findings with pain response by provocation discography in patients with discogenic low back pain, with an emphasis on the combination analysis of a high intensity zone (hiz) and disc contour abnormalities. sixty-two patients (aged 17-68 years) with axial low back pain that was likely to be disc related underwent lumbar discography (178 discs tested). the mr images were evaluated for disc degeneration, disc contour abnormalities, hiz, and endplate abnormalities. based on the combination of an hiz and disc contour abnormalities, four classes were determined: (1) normal or bulging disc without hiz; (2) normal or bulging disc with hiz; (3) disc protrusion without hiz; (4) disc protrusion with hiz. these mr image findings and a new combined mr classification were analyzed in the base of concordant pain determined by discography. disc protrusion with hiz [sensitivity 45.5%; specificity 97.8%; positive predictive value (ppv), 87.0%] correlated significantly with concordant pain provocation (p < 0.01). disc degeneration (sensitivity 95.4%; specificity 38.8%; ppv 33.9%), disc protrusion (sensitivity 68.2%; specificity 80.6%; ppv 53.6%), and hiz (sensitivity 56.8%; specificity 83.6%; ppv 53.2%) were not helpful in the identification of a disc with concordant pain. the proposed mr classification is useful to predict a disc with concordant pain. disc protrusion with hiz on mr imaging predicted positive discography in patients with discogenic low back pain.
Is a 9-month treatment sufficient in tuberculous enterocolitis? [SEP] is a 9-month treatment sufficient in tuberculous enterocolitis? however, the duration of anti-tuberculous therapy has not been clarified in intestinal tuberculosis. to compare the efficacy of different treatment durations in tuberculous enterocolitis in terms of response and recurrence rates. forty patients with tuberculous enterocolitis were randomized prospectively: 22 patients into a 9-month and 18 into a 15-month group. diagnosis was made either by colonoscopic findings of discrete ulcers and histopathological findings of caseating granuloma and/or acid-fast bacilli, or by clinical improvement after therapeutic trial. patients were followed up with colonoscopy every other month until complete response or treatment completion, and then every 6 months for 1 year and annually. complete response was defined as a resolution of symptoms and active tuberculosis by colonoscopy. two patients in the 9-month group and one in the 15-month group underwent operation due to intestinal obstruction and perianal fistula, respectively. no recurrence of active intestinal tuberculosis occurred during the follow-up period in either group. tuberculous enterocolitis can be managed by 9-month chemotherapy without disease recurrence.
Does coronary angiography before emergency aortic surgery affect in-hospital mortality? [SEP] with regard to emergency surgery (36/50) there was no significant difference in hospital mortality (p > 0.05) and 5-year survival (p > 0.05) between those who had undergone coronary angiography (19/36; 52.8%) on the day of surgery with those who had not (17/36; 47.2%). preoperative coronary angiography may not affect survival in patients undergoing emergency surgery. with regard to emergency surgery (36/50) there was no significant difference in hospital mortality (p > 0.05) and 5 year survival (p > 0.05) between those who had undergone coronary angiography (19/36; 52.8%) on the day of surgery with those who had not (17/36; 47.2%). preoperative coronary angiography may not affect survival in patients undergoing emergency surgery. does coronary angiography before emergency aortic surgery affect in-hospital mortality? to study the relationship between coronary angiography and in-hospital mortality in patients undergoing emergency surgery of the aorta without a history of coronary revascularization or coronary angiography before the onset of symptoms. in the setting of acute ascending aortic dissection warranting emergency aortic repair, coronary angiography has been considered to be desirable, if not essential. overall, in-hospital mortality was 18.0%, and there was no significant difference between those who had coronary angiography on the day of surgery compared with those who had not (no: 16%, n = 81 vs. these data indicate that determination of coronary anatomy may not impact on survival in patients undergoing emergency surgery of the aorta and support the concept that once diagnosed, patients should proceed as quickly as possible to surgery. study 1 consisted of 1,000 consecutive non-emergent patients who were affected by abdominal aortic or carotid disease and were screened for the presence of coronary artery disease before surgery with a newly developed clinical risk assessment.
Is bicompartmental knee arthroplasty more favourable to knee muscle strength and physical performance compared to total knee arthroplasty? [SEP] is bicompartmental knee arthroplasty more favourable to knee muscle strength and physical performance compared to total knee arthroplasty? bicompartmental knee arthroplasty features bone and ligament sparing as unicompartmental knee arthroplasty and is presumably better in the recovery of muscle strength and function compared to total knee arthroplasty (tka) though not previously reported in the literature. the aim of the study was to compare isokinetic knee muscle strength and physical performance in patients who underwent either bicompartmental knee arthroplasty or tka. each of 24 patients (31 knees) was prospectively examined preoperatively, at 6 and 12 months after each surgery. isokinetic knee extensor and flexor strength as well as position sense were measured using the biodex system. demography showed significant difference in the mean age between bicompartment (54.8 ± 5.6 years) and tka groups (65.7 ± 6.7 years). comparing between the two groups, knee extensor and flexor torque, hamstring/quadriceps ratio, position sense, and physical performance were not significantly different preoperatively, at 6 and 12 months after surgery. in intra-group analysis, muscle strength and position sense at each time point were not different in both groups. in physical performance, both groups resulted in improvement in the 6-min walk test, and only tka group showed enhancement in stair climbing test. although theoretically plausible, bicompartmental knee arthroplasty was not superior in knee muscle strength and physical performance at 1 year compared with total knee arthroplasty.
Can gingival crevicular blood be relied upon for assessment of blood glucose level? [SEP] 
Predicting admission at triage: are nurses better than a simple objective score? [SEP] predicting admission at triage: are nurses better than a simple objective score? we compared two methods of predicting hospital admission from ed triage: probabilities estimated by triage nurses and probabilities calculated by the glasgow admission prediction score (gaps). in this single-centre prospective study, triage nurses estimated the probability of admission using a 100 mm visual analogue scale (vas), and gaps was generated automatically from triage data. we compared calibration using rank sum tests, discrimination using area under receiver operating characteristic curves (auc) and accuracy with mcnemar's test. in contrast, the nurses' mean vas predicted 865 admissions (47.3%), overestimating by 6.6% (p<0.0001). gaps discriminated between admission and discharge as well as nurses, its auc 0.876 compared with 0.875 for vas (p=0.93). as a binary predictor, its accuracy was 80.6%, again comparable with vas (79.0%), p=0.18. in the minority of attendances, when nurses felt at least 95% certain of the outcome, vas' accuracy was excellent, at 92.4%. when we used gaps, but 'over-ruled' it when clinical certainty was ≥95%, this significantly outperformed either method, with auc 0.891 (0.877-0.907) and accuracy 82.5% (80.7%-84.2%). gaps, a simple clinical score, is a better predictor of admission than triage nurses, unless the nurse is sure about the outcome, in which case their clinical judgement should be respected.
Target Serum Urate: Do Gout Patients Know Their Goal? [SEP] 
Diagnosis and follow-up in constipated children: should we use ultrasound? [SEP] retrospective analysis of point-of-care ultrasound results in the follow-up of paediatric functional constipation. this study aimed to evaluate point-of-care ultrasound (pocus) findings in children with functional constipation who achieved complete clinical improvement following standard treatment in accordance with international guidelines. the study included 58 children (31 boys) aged 0.9-16.1 (mean age 5.22 ± 3.24), diagnosed with functional constipation, who attended two visits: first due to constipation-related symptoms and second to evaluate the treatment response. each patient underwent a complete abdominal ultrasound examination before or during the first visit and a pocus assessment at follow-up. in the studied children with functional constipation, pocus findings provided additional, clinically meaningful information for evaluating treatment response. transverse rectal diameter: predictor of severity in children with chronic functional constipation. this study aims to evaluate transverse rectal diameter (trd) as a predictor of clinical severity and response to conventional treatment in children with chronic functional constipation (cfc). we used the constipation scoring system (css), pelvic ultrasound (trd, anterior wall thickness [wt], detrusor thickness [dt]), and follow-up assessments at 2, 4, and 6 months. trd measured by pelvic ultrasound is a reliable noninvasive marker for assessing severity and monitoring treatment response in pediatric cfc. laxatives were reintroduced, and a follow-up ultrasound 3 months later still indicated an abdominal mass.
Did the call for boycott by the Catholic bishops affect the polio vaccination coverage in Kenya in 2015? [SEP] did the call for boycott by the catholic bishops affect the polio vaccination coverage in kenya in 2015? polio eradication is now feasible after removal of nigeria from the list of endemic countries and global reduction of cases of wild polio virus in 2015 by more than 80%. in august 2015, the catholic bishops in kenya called for boycott of a polio vaccination campaign citing safety concerns with the polio vaccine. we conducted a survey to establish if the coverage was affected by the boycott. a total of 90,157 children and 37,732 parents/guardians were sampled to determine the vaccination coverage and reasons for missed vaccination. the national vaccination coverage was 93% compared to 94% in the november 2014 campaign. reasons for missed vaccination included house not being visited (44%), children not being at home at time of visit (38%), refusal by parents (12%), children being as leep (1%), and various other reasons (5%). compared to the november 2014 campaign, the proportion of children who were not vaccinated due to parent's refusal significantly increased from 6% to 12% in august 2015. the call for boycott did not affect the campaign significantly. however, if the call for boycott is repeated in future it could have some significant negative implication to polio eradication.
Recurrent spontaneous abortion and skewed X-inactivation: is there an association? [SEP] the present study is focused on testing a possible association between extreme skewed x-chromosome inactivation patterns and/or shortened telomeres with idiopathic cases since both are considered non-consensual potential causes underlying recurrent pregnancy loss in the scientific community. consistent with the association of sxci with autoimmunity, i first note the possibility that recurrent spontaneous abortion could reflect immune rejection of fetuses inheriting alleles from the largely silenced maternal x chromosome. association of skewed x chromosome inactivation and idiopathic recurrent spontaneous abortion: a systematic review and meta-analysis. evidence of an association between skewed x chromosome inactivation (sxci) and idiopathic recurrent spontaneous abortion (rsa) is conflicting. the aim of the present study was to investigate the role of cag repeat polymorphism and x-chromosome inactivation (xci) pattern in recurrent spontaneous abortions among indian women which has not been hitherto explored. skewed x chromosome inactivation and trisomic spontaneous abortion: no association. several studies suggest that highly skewed x chromosome inactivation (hsxi) is associated with recurrent spontaneous abortion. we compared the distribution of x chromosome inactivation (xci) skewing percentages (range: 50%-100%) among women with spontaneous abortions in four karyotype groups-trisomy (n = 154), chromosomally normal male (n = 43), chromosomally normal female (n = 38), nontrisomic chromosomally abnormal (n = 61)-to the distribution for age-matched controls with chromosomally normal births (n = 388). association of extremely skewed x-chromosome inactivation with taiwanese women presenting with recurrent pregnancy loss. to investigate if skewed x-chromosome inactivation (xci) is associated with unexplained recurrent miscarriage (rm) in greek women.
Does increased patient awareness improve accrual into cancer-related clinical trials? [SEP] does increased patient awareness improve accrual into cancer-related clinical trials? oncology literature cites that only 2% to 4% of patients participate in research. up to 85% of patients are unaware that clinical trials research is being conducted at their treatment facility or that they might be eligible to participate. it was hypothesized that patients' satisfaction with information regarding clinical trials would improve after targeted educational interventions, and accruals to clinical trials would increase in the year following those interventions. all new patients referred to the cancer center over a 4-month period were mailed a baseline survey to assess their knowledge of clinical research. subsequently, educational interventions were provided, including an orientation session highlighting clinical trials, a pamphlet, and a reference to a clinical trials web site. patient satisfaction with information significantly increased after the interventions. patients who indicated an inclination to participate in clinical trials tended to have greater satisfaction with the information they received. a set of educational interventions designed for cancer patients significantly improved their satisfaction with information on clinical research, but did not improve clinical trial enrollment of these participants as of 1 year after the study. information relating to research may be most effectively delivered by patients' primary cancer care providers.
Does airway surgery lower serum lipid levels in obstructive sleep apnea patients? [SEP] association between serum/plasma levels of adiponectin and obstructive sleep apnea hypopnea syndrome: a meta-analysis. the relationship between obstructive sleep apnea hypopnea syndrome (osahs) and a variety of disease from obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease has been investigated previously. does airway surgery lower serum lipid levels in obstructive sleep apnea patients? obstructive sleep apnea (osa) is tightly linked to increased cardiovascular disease. surgery is an important method to treat osa, but its effect on serum lipid levels in osa patients is unknown. we aimed to evaluate the effect of upper airway surgery on lipid profiles. we performed a retrospective review of 113 adult patients with osa who underwent surgery (nasal or uvulopalatopharyngoplasty [uppp]) at a major, urban, academic hospital in beijing from 2012 to 2013 who had preoperative and postoperative serum lipid profiles. serum tc (4.86±0.74 to 4.69±0.71) and lp(a) (median 18.50 to 10.90) all decreased significantly post-operatively (p<0.01, 0.01, respectively), with no changes in serum hdl, ldl, or tg (p>0.05, all). surgery may improve blood lipid levels in patients with osa, especially in patients with preoperative dyslipidemia, potentially yielding a major benefit in metabolism and cardiovascular sequelae. prospective studies should examine this potential metabolic effect of airway surgery for osa.
Is withdrawal-induced anxiety in alcoholism based on beta-endorphin deficiency? [SEP] is withdrawal-induced anxiety in alcoholism based on beta-endorphin deficiency? associations between several psychopathological alterations and lowered beta-endorphin(beta e) plasma levels have already been stated in former studies. during alcohol withdrawal, a decreased secretion of beta e with a delayed normalization has been reported, but up to now only few data became available regarding the interaction of plasma beta e and psychopathological parameters. the aim of our study was to test the hypothesis whether beta e during acute alcohol withdrawal is associated with anxiety, depression, and craving. we observed self-rated anxiety, depression, and craving during alcohol withdrawal and assessed beta e levels (ria) in a consecutive sample of 60 alcoholics on day 1 and day 14 after onset of withdrawal, and in 30 healthy volunteers. in accordance with prior studies, beta e was significantly lowered on day 1 and day 14 of alcohol withdrawal relative to controls. plasma levels of acth correlated significantly with beta e in alcoholics at both time points and in controls, without differing significantly between the groups. self-rated anxiety, depression, and alcohol craving decreased significantly between day 1 and day 14. levels of beta e were inversely correlated with anxiety day 1 (r=-0.58) and day 14 (r=-0.71). our results give first evidence that lowered beta e during alcohol withdrawal may contribute to anxiety as a common disturbance during this state.
Doppler examination of uteroplacental circulation in early pregnancy: can it predict adverse outcome? [SEP] umbilical artery doppler may be useful in the surveillance of twin gestations when there are complications involving the placental circulation or fetal hemodynamic physiology. doppler examination of uteroplacental circulation in early pregnancy: can it predict adverse outcome? to determine whether spectral doppler measurements obtained from bilateral uterine, arcuate, radial, and spiral arteries in early gestation correlate with adverse pregnancy outcome. one hundred five pregnant women underwent transvaginal doppler sonographic examination of uteroplacental circulation at 6-12 weeks' gestation. transvaginal doppler examination can detect hemodynamic changes in uteroplacental circulation associated with subsequent adverse pregnancy outcome. evaluation of third trimester uterine artery flow velocity indices in relationship to perinatal complications. uterine artery doppler is becoming a routine part of pregnancy surveillance in high-risk pregnancies. uterine artery blood flow was recorded in 217 pregnancies admitted for doppler ultrasound surveillance due to suspected iugr. uterine artery doppler velocimetry is widely applied in predicting pregnancy outcomes. to evaluate the potential clinical use of maternal serum free beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (beta-hcg) and uterine artery doppler investigation to screen for placenta-related adverse outcome in pregnancies at positive risk for down's syndrome at 15-18 weeks.
Can vitamin C prevent complex regional pain syndrome in patients with wrist fractures? [SEP] systemic vitamin c supplementation after wrist fracture has been suggested to reduce the incidence of complex regional pain syndrome (crps). efficacy of vitamin c in preventing complex regional pain syndrome after wrist fracture: a systematic review and meta-analysis. the primary objective of this systematic literature review and meta-analysis was to assess the efficacy of vitamin c therapy in preventing crps-i after a wrist fracture. daily supplementation with 500mg of vitamin c per day for 50 days decreases the 1-year risk of crps-i after wrist fracture. vitamin c to prevent complex regional pain syndrome in patients with distal radius fractures: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. to determine whether vitamin c is effective in preventing complex regional pain syndrome (crps) in patients with distal radius fractures. can vitamin c prevent complex regional pain syndrome in patients with wrist fractures? vitamin c reduces the prevalence of complex regional pain syndrome after wrist fractures. effect of vitamin c on frequency of reflex sympathetic dystrophy in wrist fractures: a randomised trial. this prospective, double-blind study shows that vitamin c was associated with a lower risk of rsd after wrist fractures.
Is digoxin use for cardiovascular disease associated with risk of prostate cancer? [SEP] prolonged use of cardiovascular disease (cvd) medications, furosemide (hr 1.51, 95% ci 1.39-1.63), spironolactone (hr 1.36; 95% ci 1.15-1.61), and digoxin (hr 1.50, 95% ci: 1.29-1.72), significantly increased risk for male breast cancer incidence. the study findings may shed insights in cardio-oncology specific risk factors for male breast cancer among prostate cancer survivors. is digoxin use for cardiovascular disease associated with risk of prostate cancer? preclinical studies of prostate cancer (pca) have shown anti-tumor activity with digoxin. we explore the relationship between use of digoxin and pca risk. a cohort study of digoxin exposure and mortality in men with prostate cancer. to examine the association between digoxin exposure and mortality in men with prostate cancer using linked irish national cancer registry and pharmacy claims data. prostate cancer cases were identified from the database and digoxin exposure at prostate cancer diagnosis was identified from prescription claims. adjusted hazard ratios (hrs) and 95% confidence intervals (cis) were estimated for the association between digoxin exposure and all-cause and prostate cancer-specific mortality (pcsm). digoxin exposure was associated with a small non-significant increase in pcsm in the full cohort (hr 1.13, 95% ci 0.91, 1.42) and the propensity.
Are income-related differences in active travel associated with physical environmental characteristics? [SEP] are income-related differences in active travel associated with physical environmental characteristics? rates of active travel vary by socio-economic position, with higher rates generally observed among less affluent populations. aspects of both social and built environments have been shown to affect active travel, but little research has explored the influence of physical environmental characteristics, and less has examined whether physical environment affects socio-economic inequality in active travel. this study explored income-related differences in active travel in relation to multiple physical environmental characteristics including air pollution, climate and levels of green space, in urban areas across england. we hypothesised that any gradient in the relationship between income and active travel would be least pronounced in the least physically environmentally-deprived areas where higher income populations may be more likely to choose active transport as a means of travel. three-level binary logistic regression models were used to explore how associations between the trip being active (by bike/walking) and three income groups, varied by level of multiple physical environmental deprivation. likelihood of making an active trip among the lowest income group appeared unaffected by physical environmental deprivation; 15.4% of their non-recreational trips were active in both the least and most environmentally-deprived areas. the income-related gradient in making active trips remained steep in the least environmentally-deprived areas because those in the highest income groups were markedly less likely to choose active travel when physical environment was 'good', compared to those on the lowest incomes (or = 0.44, 95% ci = 0.22 to 0.89). the socio-economic gradient in active travel seems independent of physical environmental characteristics. whilst more affluent populations enjoy advantages on some health outcomes, they will still benefit from increasing their levels of physical activity through active travel.
Can Roux-en-Y gastric bypass provide a lifelong solution for diabetes mellitus? [SEP] can roux-en-y gastric bypass provide a lifelong solution for diabetes mellitus? bariatric surgery such as gastric bypass is emerging as a promising option in obese patients with type 2 diabetes. the aim of this article is to explore the current application of gastric bypass in patients with type 2 diabetes and the theoretical bases of gastric bypass as a treatment option for type 1 diabetes. surgical treatment of diabetes is evolving from complex pancreatic and islets transplantation surgery for type 1 diabetes with critical postoperative outcome and follow-up to a metabolic surgery, including gastric bypass. gastric bypass (no immune suppression or graft rejection) has proven to be highly effective treatment for obese patients and nonobese animals with type 2 diabetes. roux-en-y gastric bypass is a promising option for lifelong treatment of type 2 diabetes. it has the potential to improve or cure a selected spectrum of type 1 diabetes when performed early in the disease. nous avons cherché dans medline des articles publiés entre août 1955 et décembre 2008 où l’on a utilisé les expressions « surgical treatment of diabetes », « etiology of diabetes » et « gastric bypass ». le pontage gastrique (qui n’entraîne pas de suppression immunitaire ou de rejet du greffon) s’est révélé très efficace chez les patients obèses et des animaux non obèses atteints de diabète de type 2. le pontage gastrique roux-en-y se révèle prometteur pour le traitement permanent du diabète de type 2.
Do the changes in the serum levels of IL-2, IL-4, TNFalpha, and IL-6 reflect the inflammatory activity in the patients with post-ERCP pancreatitis? [SEP] 
Preoperative platelet count in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma: is it a prognostic factor? [SEP] high preoperative platelet to lymphocyte ratio is associated with a greater risk of postoperative complications and hematogenous recurrences in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma patients receiving neoadjuvant treatment. inflammation-related parameter serve as prognostic biomarker in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. the aim of this study was to explore the predictive role of inflammation-related parameters in prognosis of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (escc). the preoperative hemoglobin, albumin, lymphocyte and platelet (halp) score is a useful predictor in patients with resectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. preoperative lymphocyte-monocyte ratio is not an independent prognostic factor in m0 (stage i-iii) esophageal squamous cell carcinomas. inflammatory cells are related to the prognosis in many malignancies; however, the prognostic values of preoperative neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (nlr), lymphocyte-monocyte ratio (lmr) and platelet-lymphocyte ratio (plr) in esophageal squamous cell carcinomas (esccs) are contentious. elevated preoperative platelet distribution width predicts poor prognosis in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. the predictive and prognostic role of a novel ads score in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma patients undergoing esophagectomy. in current study, we investigated the prognostic and predictive role of albumin (alb) to fibrinogen (fib) ratio (afr) and a novel afr-alb-derived neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio (dnlr) score (ads) in escc patients undergoing esophagectomy and compared them with fib, alb, neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio (nlr), dnlr, platelet to lymphocyte ratio (plr) and lymphocyte to monocyte ratio (lmr). the predictive value of a preoperative systemic immune-inflammation index and prognostic nutritional index in patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.
Can we predict urinary stone composition based on an analysis of microelement concentration in the hair and urine? [SEP] 
Could ADMA levels in young adults born preterm predict an early endothelial dysfunction? [SEP] 
Can fractional lasers enhance transdermal absorption of topical lidocaine in an in vivo animal model? [SEP] 
Does intra-abdominal desmoid disease affect patients with an ileal pouch differently than those with an ileorectal anastomosis? [SEP] does intra-abdominal desmoid disease affect patients with an ileal pouch differently than those with an ileorectal anastomosis? nobody has analyzed the sequelae of desmoids according to the type of surgery that precipitated them. this study aims to determine whether the clinical effects of abdominal desmoids would be worse in patients with restorative proctocolectomy than in patients with ileorectal anastomosis. included were patients with familial adenomatous polyposis who had undergone proctocolectomy with ipaa or colectomy and ileorectal anastomosis, and subsequently developed an intra-abdominal desmoid tumor. the primary outcome measures were the clinical course of the desmoids; morbidity, and the requirement for stoma. there were 86 patients: 49 had restorative proctocolectomy and 37 had ileorectal anastomosis. treatment of the desmoids included surgery (64.4% vs 65.6%), medical therapy (69.4% vs 59.5%), chemotherapy (36.2% vs 30.0%), and radiotherapy (4.5% vs 10.0%), and was the same for each group. the overall complication rate of desmoids was similar, approaching 70%. the risk of individual complications was also similar (bleeding (2.0% vs 0.0%), fistula (10.2% vs 13.5%), bowel obstruction (32.7% vs 48.6%), pain (34.7% vs 21.6%), and death related to desmoid tumors (2.0% vs 10.8%)); 38.8% of the restorative proctocolectomy group and 51.4% the ileorectal group had surgery for desmoid tumor complications (p = .21), and 22.4% and 22.2% of patients ultimately had permanent stomas. the morbidity associated with desmoid tumors has not been shown to differ, whether they arise after restorative proctocolectomy or ileorectal anastomosis.
Does anastomotic leakage affect functional outcome after rectal resection for cancer? [SEP] impact of anastomotic leakage and radiotherapy on long-term quality of life after sphincter-saving rectal resections. the impact of anastomotic leakage (al) on quality of life (qol) following low anterior resections (lar) remains a pressing concern, particularly as advancements in surgical techniques and multimodal treatments have resulted in an increasing number of survivors. type of anastomosis in rectal cancer surgery is not associated with anastomotic leakage and impaired bowel function at long-term follow-up. furthermore, anastomotic leakage following rectal cancer resection is an important risk factor affecting qol. the impact of anastomotic leakage on long-term function after anterior resection for rectal cancer. it is still not clear whether anastomotic leakage after anterior resection for rectal cancer affects long-term functional outcome. this study aimed to evaluate how anastomotic leakage following anterior resection for rectal cancer influences defecatory, urinary, and sexual function. anastomotic leakage was found to statistically significantly increase the risk of aid use due to fecal incontinence and reduced sexual activity, although the impact on defecatory dysfunction might be underestimated, because permanent stomas are sometimes fashioned because of anorectal dysfunction. long-term oncologic outcomes following anastomotic leak after anterior resection for rectal cancer: does the leak severity matter? the evidence regarding the impact of anastomotic leak (al) after anterior resection (ar) for rectal cancer on oncologic outcomes is controversial, and there are no data about the prognostic relevance of the international study group of rectal cancer (isrec) al classification.
Can clinical supervision sustain our workforce in the current healthcare landscape? [SEP] preceptorship was the most used mentorship/clinical supervision model (n=41). can clinical supervision sustain our workforce in the current healthcare landscape? clinical supervision is widely recognised as a mechanism for providing professional support, professional development and clinical governance for healthcare workers. there have been limited studies about the effectiveness of clinical supervision for allied health and minimal studies conducted within the australian health context. the aim of the present study was to identify whether clinical supervision was perceived to be effective by allied health professionals and to identify components that contributed to effectiveness. a cross-sectional study was conducted with community allied health workers (n = 82) 8 months after implementation of structured clinical supervision. the outcome measure, clinical supervision effectiveness, was operationalised using the manchester clinical supervision scale-26 (mcss-26). the length of the supervision sessions (r(s) ≥ 0.44), the number of sessions (r(s) ≥ 0.35) and the total period supervision had been received (r(s) ≥ 0.42) were all significantly positively correlated with the mcss-26 domains of clinical supervision effectiveness. three individual variables, namely 'receiving clinical supervision', 'having some choice in the allocation of clinical supervisor' and 'having a completed clinical supervision agreement', were also significantly associated with higher total mcss-26 scores (p(s) < 0.014). the results of the study demonstrate that when clinical supervision uses best practice principles, it can provide professional support for allied health workers, even during times of rapid organisational change.
Is the determination of specific IgE against components using ISAC 112 a reproducible technique? [SEP] 
Is the first urinary albumin/creatinine ratio (ACR) in women with suspected preeclampsia a prognostic factor for maternal and neonatal adverse outcome? [SEP] 
Is there awareness of pharmaceutical expenditure in the reformed primary care system? [SEP] public provision is predominant in primary care and hospital care, with a gatekeeping system in place for the former. pharmaceutical products, diagnostic technologies and private practice by physicians constitute the bulk of private health care provision. on the other hand, many measures have been adopted to improve the performance of the health system, including public private partnerships (ppps) for new hospitals, a change in nhs hospital management structures, pharmaceutical reforms, the reorganization of primary care and the creation of long-term care networks. there is an overall awareness, and concern, about the rise in health care expenditure in portugal. [is there awareness of pharmaceutical expenditure in the reformed primary care system?]. to evaluate the effectiveness of feeding information on pharmacy back to primary care doctors in order to create awareness (knowledge) of pharmaceutical expenditure (pe). the 80 pc doctors working with primary care teams. as the personal feed-back on pe, each doctor was asked for the pe generated during 1997 and the mean cost of prescriptions to active and pensioner patients. out of the total doctors interviewed (80), 71 replies were obtained for the annual pe and 76 for the mean cost of prescriptions, for both active and pensioner patients. this poses a question over the efficacy of feed-back of pharmacy information in order to create this awareness.
Do women with ovaries of polycystic morphology without any other features of PCOS benefit from short-term metformin co-treatment during IVF? [SEP] do women with ovaries of polycystic morphology without any other features of pcos benefit from short-term metformin co-treatment during ivf? women with ovaries of polycystic morphology (pco), without any other features of polycystic ovary syndrome (pcos), respond similarly to women with pcos when stimulated with exogenous gonadotrophins, and both groups share various endocrinological disturbances underlying their pathology. in women with pcos, metformin co-treatment during ivf has been shown to increase pregnancy rates and reduce the risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (ohss). the aim of this study was to investigate whether metformin co-treatment before and during ivf can also increase the live birth rate (lbr) and lower severe ohss rates for women with pco, but no other manifestations of pcos. the study population included 134 women with ovulatory pco (and no evidence of clinical or biochemical hyperandrogenism) undergoing ivf treatment at three tertiary referral ivf units. the primary outcome was lbr. in total, 134 women were randomized, 69 to metformin and 65 to placebo. with regard to ivf outcome, no significant improvements were found in the metformin group when compared with the placebo group. in particular, there was no difference between the groups in rates of live birth [metformin n = 27 (39.1%), placebo n = 30 (46.2), (95% confidence interval 0.38, 1.49, odds ratio = 0.75)], clinical pregnancy [metformin n = 29 (42.0%), placebo n = 33 (50.8%)] or severe ohss [metformin n = 6 (8.7%), placebo n = 5 (7.7%)]. there appears to be no benefit in metformin co-treatment before and during ivf in women with pco without any other features of pcos.
Estimated fetal weight by ultrasound: a modifiable risk factor for cesarean delivery? [SEP] [investigating into whether systematic fetal weight estimation by ultrasound in the delivery room increases the risk of cesarean delivery]. ultrasound is a valuable tool commonly used in the delivery room. the objective of this study was to investigate whether systematic fetal weight estimation by ultrasound in the delivery room increases the risk of cesarean delivery. we excluded all patients with a contraindication to vaginal birth as well as those in whom fetal weight estimation (fwe) by ultrasound on day of delivery was deemed necessary in making obstetric decision. prematurity, fwe and weight at birth were risk factors for cesarean delivery. after adjustment for confounding factors, fwe by ultrasound systematically performed in g1 proved to be an independent risk factor for cesarean delivery with or = 3.8 (ci 95% = [2.67 to 5.48]). this risk increased significantly with estimated fetal weight (efw): or=2,27(ci 95;1,15-4,47; p=0.018) for 3500 < efw < 4000g and or = 10.64 (ci 95; 4.28 to 26.41; p < 0.001 ) for efw > 4000 g. fwe by ultrasound systematically performed in the delivery room represents an independent and potentially modifiable risk factor for cesarean delivery. to investigate whether antenatal recognition of small-for-gestational-age (sga) fetuses with normal maternal and fetal doppler values delivered after 34 weeks' gestation is associated with changes in the risk of adverse maternal and neonatal outcomes. estimated fetal weight by ultrasound: a modifiable risk factor for cesarean delivery? the purpose of this study was to investigate whether knowledge of ultrasound-obtained estimated fetal weight (us-efw) is a risk factor for cesarean delivery (cd).
Does Mammographic Density have an Impact on the Margin Re-excision Rate After Breast-Conserving Surgery? [SEP] does mammographic density have an impact on the margin re-excision rate after breast-conserving surgery? limited and conflicting data exist on an association between mammographic density (md) and re-excision rates after breast-conserving surgery (bcs). operative and pathology reports were reviewed to determine margin resection and involvement. additional margins were deemed unnecessary if the lumpectomy specimen margin was free of invasive tumor [≥2 mm for ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis)] or if further re-excision was needed. of 655 patients, 398 (60.8%) had bcs, whereas 226 (34.5%) underwent initial mastectomy. the women with denser breasts (bi-rads 3 or 4) underwent initial mastectomy more frequently than the women with less dense breasts (40.0 vs. 30.5%, respectively; p = 0.0118). in the bivariable analysis, the patients with denser breasts according to bi-rads classification and volumetric density showed a trend toward requiring more frequent re-excision, but this association was not seen in the multivariable analysis. the rate of unnecessary margins did not differ by breast density. in the multivariate analysis, the re-excision rates increased with dcis (p < 0.0003) and decreased with resection of additional margins (p = 0.0043). mammographic density is not associated with an increased need for re-excision or resection of unnecessary margins at initial bcs.
Are women who are treated for hypothyroidism at risk for pregnancy complications? [SEP] severe hypertriglyceridemia during pregnancy in a hypothyroid patient: a case report and literature review. hypothyroidism: a review. hypothyroidism can cause insulin resistance and hyperglycemia in patients with diabetes, increase the risk for cardiovascular events, such as heart failure, and negatively affect female reproductive health, causing disrupted ovulation, infertility, and increased risk of miscarriage. hypothyroidism may be associated with fatigue, weight gain, memory loss, difficulty concentrating, cardiovascular disease such as heart failure, menstrual irregularities, infertility, and increased risk of miscarriage. effect of levothyroxine treatment on serum lipids and pregnancy outcomes in pregnant women with isolated hypothyroxinemia. considering the u-shaped association between thyroidstimulating hormone (tsh) and hypertensive disorders of pregnancy in some reports, we decided to investigate the effect of levothyroxine treatment on gh and pe in pregnant women with subclinical hypothyroidism (sch) overt hypothyroidism (oh), and autoimmune thyroid diseases. early treatment will prevent feto-maternal complications in thyroid disorders during pregnancy: a prospective study. associations between adverse maternal complications and fetal outcomes are known entity in thyroid disorders during pregnancy. levothyroxine initiation and the risk of pregnancy loss among pregnant women with subclinical hypothyroidism: an observational study emulating a target trial. after matching, women who initiated levothyroxine versus not had higher thyroid-stimulating levels during pregnancy and were more likely to have a history of hypothyroidism.
Internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint: is there still a place for ultrasound? [SEP] 
Laparoscopic myomectomy: do size, number, and location of the myomas form limiting factors for laparoscopic myomectomy? [SEP] are there any limits for laparoscopic myomectomy?-tips & tricks. with recent advances in technical developments and increased surgical experiences, laparoscopic myomectomy has started to be preferred for many reasons such as less blood loss and pain, lower complications and adhesion formation, faster post-operative recovery, and shorter duration of hospital stay. the number, size, and location of the fibroids are important factors during decision of laparoscopic or open technique. laparoscopic myomectomy: do size, number, and location of the myomas form limiting factors for laparoscopic myomectomy? to assess whether it is possible for an experienced laparoscopic surgeon to perform efficient laparoscopic myomectomy regardless of the size, number, and location of the myomas. a total of 505 healthy nonpregnant women with symptomatic myomas underwent laparoscopic myomectomy at our center. laparoscopic myomectomy and modifications of the technique: enucleation of the myoma by morcellation while it is still attached to the uterus with and without earlier devascularization. three comparisons were performed on the basis of size of the myomas (<10 cm and >or=10 cm in largest diameter), number of myomas removed (<or=4 and >or=5 myomas), and the technique (enucleation of the myomas by morcellation while the myoma is still attached to the uterus and the conventional technique). six patients underwent laparoscopic hysterectomy 4 to 6 years after the surgery for recurrent myomas. laparoscopic myomectomy can be performed by experienced surgeons regardless of the size, number, or location of the myomas.
Is intensive chemotherapy safe for rural cancer patients? [SEP] is intensive chemotherapy safe for rural cancer patients? to provide equality of cancer care to rural patients, townsville cancer centre administers intensive chemotherapy regimens to rural patients with node-positive breast and metastatic colorectal cancers at the same doses as urban patients. side-effects were usually managed by rural general practitioners locally. the aim is to determine the safety of this practice by comparing the profile of serious adverse events and dose intensities between urban and rural patients at the townsville cancer centre. rurality was determined as per rural, remote and metropolitan classification. the urban versus rural patient split among all patients, breast and colorectal cancer subgroups was 68 versus 53, 43 versus 27 and 25 versus 26 respectively. it appears safe to administer intensive chemotherapy regimens at standard doses to rural patients without increased morbidity or mortality. a majority of the patients were from a rural background and had a longer duration of symptoms compared to urban patients. breast conservative surgery, although considered the gold standard in early breast cancer, was found unsuitable for our patients, due to the social background and lack of intensive radiotherapy and chemotherapy backup. neoadjuvant chemotherapy was used mainly by surgical oncologists suggesting a more rational approach toward the management of breast carcinoma.
Does sex affect the outcome of laparoscopic cholecystectomy? [SEP] perioperative outcomes and complications of laparoscopic cholecystectomy in end-stage renal disease patients: a prospective comparative study. limited literature exists regarding laparoscopic cholecystectomy (lc) outcomes in this population. the safe cholecystectomy: evaluating the use of laparoscopic subtotal cholecystectomy between junior and senior faculty. studies have evaluated outcomes and complications of laparoscopic cholecystectomy (lc), with mixed results in terms of surgeon experience. impact of resident involvement on patient outcomes in laparoscopic cholecystectomy of different degrees of complexity: analysis of 2331 cases. although lc is associated with fewer complications when compared with open cholecystectomy, the risk for infectious complications, including surgical site infection and intra-abdominal abscess, remains a significant source of postoperative morbidity. effect of clinical anesthesia preoperative evaluation on the length of preoperative period and total hospitalization of patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy. we evaluated the effect of apec operations on the lphs and lths of inpatients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy and observed a decrease in both the lphs and lths. long-term patient-reported outcomes following laparoscopic cholecystectomy: a prospective multicenter observational study. this study aimed to identify risk factors affecting short- and long-term patient-reported outcome (pro) following laparoscopic cholecystectomy.from 2016 to 2017, a total of 476 patients from 5 institutions were enrolled.
Is atropine needed with ketamine sedation? [SEP] preoperative sedation included acepromazine; anesthetic induction included ketamine-midazolam and isoflurane anesthesia. ketamine), other analgesics (e.g. ketamine dosing for sedation during repeated radiotherapy sessions in children. in a single-blind prospective study design, thirty-three pediatric patients undergoing radiotherapy due to oncologic disorders received 2 mg/kg ketamine and 10 μg/kg atropine intravenously and the rescue drug to be administered was ketamine at 0.5 mg/kg when the sedation level was inadequate. three patients needed intravenous ketamine of 0.25 mg/kg additionally for preoperative sedation. there was no conversion to general anesthesia in any case, but a three patients required dose of 0.25 mg/kg of intravenous ketamine as a calming dose. midazolam, ketamine hydrochloride and propofol were administered to patients for sedation during the operations. effectiveness of oral ketamine, midazolam, and atropine cocktail versus oral diphenhydramine for pediatric sedation in the emergency department. in this study, we compared the sedative effect of oral administration of ketamine, midazolam, and atropine cocktail with diphenhydramine in the referent children to the emergency department. oral administration of ketamine, midazolam, and atropine cocktail induces better sedation than diphenhydramine with respect to its limited mood changes in children, who need a medical procedure at emergency department.
Does implant coating with antibacterial-loaded hydrogel reduce bacterial colonization and biofilm formation in vitro? [SEP] does implant coating with antibacterial-loaded hydrogel reduce bacterial colonization and biofilm formation in vitro? a fast-resorbable, antibacterial-loaded hydrogel may reduce or prevent bacterial colonization and biofilm formation of implanted biomaterials. we asked: (1) is a fast-resorbable hydrogel able to deliver antibacterial compounds in vitro? (2) can a hydrogel (alone or antibacterial-loaded) coating on implants reduce bacterial colonization? and (3) is intraoperative coating feasible and resistant to press-fit implant insertion? we tested the ability of disposable antibacterial coating (dac) hydrogel (novagenit srl, mezzolombardo, italy) to deliver antibacterial agents using spectrophotometry and a microbiologic assay. bactericidal and antibiofilm effect of dac hydrogel in combination with various antibacterials was shown in vitro. approximately 80% of the hydrogel coating was retrieved on the implant after press-fit insertion. implant coating with an antibacterial-loaded hydrogel reduces bacterial colonization and biofilm formation in vitro. a fast-resorbable, antibacterial-loaded hydrogel coating may help prevent implant-related infections in orthopaedics.
Do family physicians know the costs of medical care? [SEP] communication with physicians about health care costs: survey of an insured population. patients may wish to discuss costs with their clinicians. describe patient preferences for communication about cost in the clinical setting. preference for discussing health care costs with one's physician. ninety-two percent wished to know their out-of-pocket costs before beginning treatment. most respondents preferred their physician talk with them about out-of-pocket costs (81.4%) and expressed comfort with discussing costs with their physician (75.6%). delay in seeking care was positively and independently associated with preferring to discuss costs with one's physician; current medical financial burden was not. patient preferences for communication about costs with physicians are high, and medical debt and delay in care-seeking are prevalent. what can five high cost patients teach us about healthcare spending? we interviewed the patients, their family members, and their clinicians and analyzed their claims data and medical charts to explore how patient and health system characteristics influenced their health costs.
Is the ability to perform transurethral resection of the prostate influenced by the surgeon's previous experience? [SEP] 
Is there a differential in the dental health of new recruits to the British Armed Forces? [SEP] 
Is laparoscopic reoperation for failed antireflux surgery feasible? [SEP] outcomes of laparoscopic redo fundoplication in patients with failed antireflux surgery: a systematic review and meta-analysis. although antireflux surgery is highly effective, a minority of patients will require a lrf due to recurrent symptoms, mechanical failure, or intolerable side-effects of the primary repair. lrf should be considered a valuable treatment modality for patients with failed antireflux surgery. laparoscopic reoperative antireflux surgery is more cost-effective than open approach. we previously reported on the outcomes of laparoscopic and open reoperative antireflux surgery. laparoscopic reoperative antireflux surgery is more cost-effective than open repair. the role of short-limb roux-en-y reconstruction for failed antireflux surgery: a single-center 5-year experience. laparoscopic revision of failed antireflux surgery: a systematic review. laparoscopic antireflux surgery is an accepted treatment for persistent gastroesophageal reflux but about 4% of patients will eventually require revision surgery. laparoscopic revision antireflux surgery appears to be feasible and safe, but subject to somewhat greater risk of conversion, higher morbidity, longer hospital stay, and poorer outcomes than primary laparoscopic fundoplication.
Does exercise during pregnancy prevent postnatal depression? [SEP] the effect of physical activity on postpartum depression: a systematic review and meta-analysis. to examine the relationship between physical activity (pa) and postpartum depression (ppd) among pregnant and postpartum women, and to identify characteristics of pa interventions associated with reductions in depressive symptoms. impact of exercise dose-response on maternal mental health and perinatal depression prevention: a systematic review and meta-analysis. to estimate the effect of exercise on perinatal depressive symptoms, focusing on subclinical depression. exercise significantly reduced depressive symptoms (smd = -0.47; 95% ci = -0.86 to -0.08;  exercise effectively reduces perinatal depressive symptoms and represents a valuable public health intervention. effects of prenatal exercise on prenatal and postpartum depression and anxiety symptoms: a systematic review and network meta-analysis. to systematically evaluate the preventive and therapeutic effects of prenatal exercise on prenatal depression and anxiety. and the preventive effect of prenatal exercise on postpartum depression. prenatal exercise could effectively prevent postpartum depression (md = -0.95, 95 %ci: -1.87, -0.02, p = 0.04). compared to the usual care, prenatal exercise can effectively prevent and treat prenatal depression and anxiety, as well as prevent postpartum depression.
Is endometrial polyp formation associated with increased expression of vascular endothelial growth factor and transforming growth factor-beta1? [SEP] is endometrial polyp formation associated with increased expression of vascular endothelial growth factor and transforming growth factor-beta1? endometrial polyp is a common cause of abnormal uterine bleeding, but the etiology and pathogenesis remain unclear. vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) is angiogenic, related to thick walled vessels and transforming growth factor-beta1 (tgf-β1) is related to fibrotic tissue, which are characteristics of endometrial polyps. the primary objective of this study was to find out if endometrial polyp formation is associated with increased expression of vegf or tgf-β1, or both. this prospective study compared vegf and tgf-β1 expression of endometrial polyps and adjacent endometrial tissue in 70 premenopausal women. the score of vegf in glandular cells of endometrial polyps was significantly higher than the score in adjacent endometrium, both in the proliferative phase (p<0.001) and the secretory phase (p=0.03); the score of vegf in stromal cells of endometrial polyps was significantly higher than the score in adjacent endometrium only in proliferative phase (p=0.006). the score of tgf-β1 in glandular cells of endometrial polyps was significantly higher than the score in adjacent endometrium in proliferative phase (p=0.02); whereas the score of tgf-β1 in stromal cells of endometrial polyps was significantly higher than the score in adjacent endometrium, both in the proliferative phase (p=0.006) and the secretory phase (p=0.008). there was increased expression of tgf-β1 and vegf in polyps compared to adjacent normal endometrial tissue. it suggested that these cytokines might play a role in endometrial polyp formation. in addition, there was a significant correlation between steroid receptor expression and vegf and tgf-β1 expression.
Is human cytomegalovirus infection associated with hypertension? [SEP] 
Does radiotherapy around the time of pregnancy for Hodgkin's disease modify the risk of breast cancer? [SEP] does radiotherapy around the time of pregnancy for hodgkin's disease modify the risk of breast cancer? to determine whether the risk of secondary breast cancer after radiotherapy (rt) for hodgkin's disease is greater among women who underwent rt around time of pregnancy. the records of 382 women treated with rt for hodgkin's disease were reviewed and divided into those who received rt around the time of pregnancy and those who were not pregnant. the increase in the overall incidence (16.0% vs. 2.3%, p = 0.0001) and the actuarial rate of breast cancer among the women in the pregnant group (p = 0.011) was statistically significant. the women treated around the time of pregnancy had a 10- and 15-year actuarial rate of breast cancer of 6.7% and 32.6%, respectively. the median latency from rt to the diagnosis of breast cancer was 13.1 and 18.9 years for women in the pregnant and nonpregnant groups, respectively. in the multivariate analysis, pregnancy around the time of rt was the only variable associated with an increased risk of breast cancer. the risk was dependent on the length of time from pregnancy to rt, with women receiving rt during pregnancy and within 1 month of pregnancy having an increased risk of breast cancer compared with nonpregnant women and women irradiated later than 1 month after pregnancy (hazard ratio, 22.49; 95% confidence interval, 5.56-90.88; p <0.001). the results of this study indicate that the risk of breast cancer after rt is greater with irradiation around the time of pregnancy. this suggests that pregnancy is a time of increased sensitivity of breast tissue to the carcinogenic effects of radiation.
Should displaced midshaft clavicular fractures be treated surgically? [SEP] comparative analysis between intramedullary screw fixation and plate osteosynthesis in midshaft clavicle fractures: surgical efficiency and functional outcomes in contact athletes. long-term functional outcomes following non-surgical management of completely displaced midshaft clavicle fractures in adolescents (12-16 years): a retrospective cohort study with 11-year follow-up. comparing the effects of surgical and conservative treatment on scapular dyskinesis in minimally displaced midshaft clavicle fractures. we recommend its application in the surgical management of adolescents presenting with displaced mid-shaft clavicle fractures in clinical practice. surgical fixation reduces scapular dyskinesis and mal-union rates in midshaft clavicle fractures: a retrospective comparative analysis. the aim of this study was to compare surgical and conservative treatments of displaced midshaft clavicle fractures at long-term follow-up. a total of 123 patients (≥18 years) with a displaced midshaft clavicle fracture, treated surgically with plate fixation (68 patients) or conservatively (55 patients) and evaluated at a mean follow-up 6.7±2.6 years, were included in this study. a displaced midshaft clavicle fracture was fixed operatively using a precountered low-profile 2.7/3.5 mm locking plate applied in the superior position. displaced midshaft clavicle fractures are often managed operatively, with single-plate fixation serving as the standard approach. it is potentially one of the standard techniques for treating clavicle fractures in the midshaft.
Is laparoscopic cholecystectomy safe and acceptable as a day case procedure? [SEP] 
Is etoricoxib effective in preventing heterotopic ossification after primary total hip arthroplasty? [SEP] etoricoxib is safe and effective in preventing heterotopic ossification after primary total hip arthroplasty. low-dose radiation therapy and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have proven to effectively reduce the rate of heterotopic ossification after total hip arthroplasty. the investigations presented in this study confirm a good efficiency of etoricoxib for the prevention of heterotopic ossifications in comparison with classical methods such as radiation or drug therapy and show a low rate of undesirable side effects. comparative clinical study of the prophylaxis of heterotopic ossifications after total hip arthroplasty using etoricoxib or diclofenac. this study investigated whether etoricoxib (cox-ii blocker) has a superior efficacy of preventing heterotopic ossification (ho) after total hip arthroplasty (tha) compared to diclofenac (non-selective nsaid). is etoricoxib effective in preventing heterotopic ossification after primary total hip arthroplasty? heterotopic ossification is a common complication after total hip arthroplasty. in this study, we investigated whether etoricoxib, a selective cyclo-oxygenase-2 (cox-2) inhibitor that produces fewer gastrointestinal side effects, is an effective alternative for the prevention of heterotopic ossification. etoricoxib seems effective in preventing heterotopic ossification after total hip arthroplasty. this finding further supports the use of cox-2 inhibitors for the prevention of heterotopic ossification following total hip arthroplasty.
Should serum pancreatic lipase replace serum amylase as a biomarker of acute pancreatitis? [SEP] should serum pancreatic lipase replace serum amylase as a biomarker of acute pancreatitis? serum pancreatic lipase may improve the diagnosis of pancreatitis compared to serum amylase. seventeen thousand five hundred and thirty-one measurements of either serum amylase and or serum pancreatic lipase were made on 10 931 patients treated at a metropolitan teaching hospital between january 2001 and may 2003. patients with either an elevated lipase value or a discharge diagnosis of acute pancreatitis had their radiological diagnosis reviewed along with their biochemistry and histology record. the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis was made if there was radiological evidence of peripancreatic inflammation. one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five patients had either elevated serum amylase and or serum pancreatic lipase. receiver operator characteristic analysis of the initial sample from patients received in the emergency department showed improved diagnostic accuracy for serum pancreatic lipase (area under the curve (auc) 0.948) compared with serum amylase (auc, 0.906, p < 0.05). a clinically useful cut-off point would be at the diagnostic threshold; 208 u/l (normal <190 u/l) for serum pancreatic lipase and 114 u/l (normal 27-100 u/l) for serum amylase where the sensitivity was 90.3 cf., 76.8% and the specificity was 93 cf., 92.6%. 18.8% of the acute pancreatitis patients did not have elevated serum amylase while only 2.9% did not have elevated serum pancreatic lipase on the first emergency department measurement. it is concluded that serum pancreatic lipase is a more accurate biomarker of acute pancreatitis than serum amylase.
Does bone anchor fixation improve the outcome of percutaneous bladder neck suspension in female stress urinary incontinence? [SEP] does bone anchor fixation improve the outcome of percutaneous bladder neck suspension in female stress urinary incontinence? to evaluate the outcome of a new modification of percutaneous needle suspension, using a bone anchor system for fixing the suture at the public bone, and to compare the results with those published previously. from march 1996, 37 patients with stress urinary incontinence (> 2 years) were treated using a bone anchor system. a urodynamic investigation performed preoperatively in all patients confirmed stress incontinence and excluded detrusor instability. removal of the bone anchor and suture was necessary in two patients, because of unilateral bacterial infection in one and a bilateral soft tissue granuloma in the other. one bone anchor became dislocated in a third patient. in two cases where the treatment failed, new detrusor instability was documented urodynamically. minor complications were prolonged wound pain in 10 (26%) and transient urinary retention or residual urine in 12 patients (32%). the poor success rate in the study corresponds with the long-term results of conventional or modified needle suspension procedures and does not reinforce the optimistic results of bone anchoring published recently. because of the poorer long-term results from percutaneous needle suspension than from other techniques of open retropubic bladder neck suspension, it remains questionable whether percutaneous needle suspension should be considered a first-line procedure for the treatment of female stress urinary incontinence.
Are intraoperative precursor events associated with postoperative major adverse events? [SEP] perioperative fluid strategies influence clinical outcomes following major surgery. are intraoperative precursor events associated with postoperative major adverse events? precursor events are undesirable events that can lead to a subsequent adverse event and have been associated with postoperative mortality. the purpose of the present study was to determine whether precursor events are associated with a composite endpoint of major adverse cardiac events (mace) (death, acute renal failure, stroke, infection) in a low- to medium-risk coronary artery bypass grafting, valve, and valve plus coronary artery bypass grafting population. those patients with a precursor event in the absence of mace also appeared to have a greater prevalence of other important postoperative outcomes. patients undergoing cardiac surgery who are exposed to intraoperative precursor events were more likely to experience a postoperative mace. prospective assessment of intraoperative precursor events during cardiac surgery. detailed, anonymous information regarding intraoperative precursor events (which may result in adverse events) was collected prospectively from six key members of the operating team during 464 major adult cardiac surgical cases at three hospitals and were analyzed with univariable statistical methods. during 464 cardiac surgical procedures, 1627 reports of problematic precursor events were collected for an average of 3.5 and maximum of 26 per procedure. a wide range of problematic precursor events occurs during the majority of cardiac surgery procedures.
Does a family meetings intervention prevent depression and anxiety in family caregivers of dementia patients? [SEP] the cost-effectiveness of a family meetings intervention to prevent depression and anxiety in family caregivers of patients with dementia: a randomized trial. the aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a family meetings intervention for family caregivers of dementia patients in comparison with usual care over a period of 12 months. does a family meetings intervention prevent depression and anxiety in family caregivers of dementia patients? this study examines the preventive effects of family meetings for primary caregivers of community-dwelling dementia patients. (cost)-effectiveness of family meetings on indicated prevention of anxiety and depressive symptoms and disorders of primary family caregivers of patients with dementia: design of a randomized controlled trial. family meetings appear to be among the most powerful psychosocial interventions to reduce depression in caregivers. an american landmark study reported substantial beneficial effects of a multifaceted intervention where family meetings had a central place on depression in family caregivers as well as on delay of institutionalization of patients. we perform the first trial comparing only structured family meetings with significant others versus usual care among primary family caregivers of community dwelling demented patients and measure the effectiveness on both depression and anxiety in the primary caregiver, both on disorder and symptom levels. the intervention group receives four family meetings with family and close friends of the primary family caregiver of a community dwelling patient with a clinical diagnosis of dementia. by evaluating the effectiveness of only structured family meetings organized in the netherlands, this study will contribute to the existing literature about the value of psychosocial interventions for dementia caregivers.
Is combined therapy more effective than growth hormone or hyperbaric oxygen alone in the healing of left ischemic and non-ischemic colonic anastomoses? [SEP] while clinical trials have shown this treatment to be effective, there is limited information on its long-term use in routine clinical practice in japan.this study used anonymized health insurance claims data from a large japanese database to describe patient characteristics, treatment patterns, dose modification patterns, and 2-year treatment completion rates, among adults who received abemaciclib combined with endocrine therapy after surgery between december 2021 and november 2024.among 2,042 eligible patients, 439 patients were followed for at least two years. navepegritide, a prodrug of c-type natriuretic peptide, has demonstrated improved growth and additional benefits, including lower limb alignment, in children with achondroplasia. the primary efficacy endpoint was annualized growth velocity (agv) at week 52 vs agv with navepegritide monotherapy in the approach trial (nct05598320). in this prospective trial, the robust growth and anthropometric results suggest that by continuously relieving the pre-hypertrophic block in achondroplasia, navepegritide may make the growth plate more responsive to the strong complementary effect of lonapegsomatropin. when these inhibitors are used with endocrine medicines like letrozole and fulvestrant, clinical trials lead positive impact in progression-free survival and, in a few cases, complete survival. bireociclib plus fulvestrant significantly prolonged pfs vs placebo (median pfs, 14.7 months [95% ci, 11.1-20.2] vs 7.3 months [95% ci, 5.5-11.0]; hazard ratio, 0.54; 95% ci, 0.40-0.74; p < .001). the objective response rate was higher (45.6% [95% ci, 38.6-52.7] vs 14.9% [95% ci, 8.6-23.3]) in the bireociclib group, with a prolonged median duration compared with placebo (not reached [95% ci, 11.1 to not reached] vs 13.1 months [95% ci, 10.2 to not reached]). patients with early-onset diarrhea appeared to derive more benefit from bireociclib (hazard ratio, 0.49; 95% ci, 0.36-0.68). better treatments are needed. a consistent pfs benefit with t-dxd over tpc was observed for patients with primary or secondary endocrine resistance, and across indicators of high or low disease burden (defined as visceral/non-visceral disease, presence/absence of liver metastases, three or more/less than three disease sites, and >median/≤median baseline tumor size).
Does oxybutynin hydrochloride cause arrhythmia in children with bladder dysfunction? [SEP] does oxybutynin hydrochloride cause arrhythmia in children with bladder dysfunction? pediatric surgeons frequently encounter children presenting with voiding dysfunction symptoms, including urgency, frequency, and incontinence. antimuscarinic agents oxybutynin) are the main drugs used to treat patients with overactive bladder (oab) syndrome, defined as urgency, with or without urgency incontinence, usually with increased daytime frequency and nocturia. increased qt dispersion is known to be the cause of ventricular arrhythmia in various systemic diseases and leads to increased mortality and morbidity. this study represents a subset of a complete data set, considering only those children aged admitted to the pediatric surgery and pediatric nephrology clinics during the period january 2011 to july 2012. in this study, we have determined that the qt interval changes significantly depending on the use of oxybutynin. the qt changes increased cardiac arrhythmia in children. for this reason, children using such drugs should be closely monitored for cardiac arrhythmia.
Do "America's Best Hospitals" perform better for acute myocardial infarction? [SEP] 
Does preoperative anemia adversely affect colon and rectal surgery outcomes? [SEP] does preoperative anemia adversely affect colon and rectal surgery outcomes? complications associated with blood transfusions have resulted in widespread acceptance of low hematocrit levels in surgical patients. however, preoperative anemia seems to be a risk factor for adverse postoperative outcomes in certain surgical patients. this study investigated the national surgical quality improvement program (nsqip) database to determine if preoperative anemia in patients undergoing open and laparoscopic colectomies is an independent predictor for an adverse composite outcome (co) consisting of myocardial infarction, stroke, progressive renal insufficiency or death within 30 days of operation, or for an increased hospital length of stay (los). hematocrit levels were categorized into 4 classes: severe, moderate, mild, and no anemia. from 2005 to 2008, the nsqip database recorded 23,348 elective open and laparoscopic colectomies that met inclusion criteria. analyses using multivariable models, controlling for potential confounders and stratifying on propensity score, were performed. compared with nonanemic patients, those with severe, moderate, and mild anemia were more likely to have the adverse co with odds ratios of 1.83 (95% ci 1.05 to 3.19), 2.19 (95 % ci 1.63 to 2.94), and 1.49 (95% ci 1.20 to 1.86), respectively. patients with a normal hematocrit had a reduced hospital los, compared with those with severe, moderate, and mild anemia (p < 0.01). this large multicenter database analysis suggests that the presence of severe and moderate and even mild preoperative anemia is an independent risk factor for complications and a longer hospital stay after colon surgery.
Can early second-look tympanoplasty reduce the rate of conversion to modified radical mastoidectomy? [SEP] can early second-look tympanoplasty reduce the rate of conversion to modified radical mastoidectomy? combined approach tympanoplasty (cat) allows for successful treatment of cholesteatoma with rates of recurrent and residual disease comparable to open mastoid surgery. early timing of second-look procedures allows easier removal of any recurrent or residual disease, which reduces the conversion rate to open mastoidectomy. the aims of the study were to report the rates of recurrent and residual cholesteatoma following primary cat surgery and to report the rate of conversion to a modified radical mastoidectomy. this was a retrospective review of a single surgeon series between 2006 and 2012. in total 132 second-look operations were undertaken, with a mean interval between primary surgery and second-look procedures of 6 months. the rate of cholesteatoma at second-look surgery was 19.7%, which was split into residual disease (10.6%) and recurrent disease (9.09%). new tympanic membrane defects with cholesteatoma were considered as recurrent disease. the majority of recurrent and residual disease was easily removed at second look (73.1%). only four cases were converted to a modified radical mastoidectomy (3%) and three cases required a third-look procedure.
Is serum total bilirubin useful to differentiate cardioembolic stroke from other stroke subtypes? [SEP] is serum total bilirubin useful to differentiate cardioembolic stroke from other stroke subtypes? previous studies have reported that the total bilirubin (tb) level is associated with coronary artery disease, heart failure and atrial fibrillation. however, whether the serum tb could be a biomarker to differentiate cardioembolic stroke from other stroke subtypes is unclear. furthermore, serum tb was a statistically significant independent predictor of cardioembolic stroke in a multivariable setting (continuous, per unit increase or = 1.091, 95%ci: 1.023-1.164, p = 0.008). serum tb level was independently associated with cardioembolic stroke. the combination of clinical data and serum tb may be a feasible strategy to diagnose cardioembolic stroke in the acute phase. could pro-bnp, uric acid, bilirubin, albumin and transferrin be used in making the distinction between stroke subtypes? the objective was to observe if certain plasma parameters could be used as biomarkers in distinguishing between stroke subtypes. plasma pro-bnp (chemiluminescence), serum uric acid, bilirubin (colorimetric assay), albumin and transferrin (nephelometric assay) levels were performed in 168 admitted patients (mean age 68.7 +/- 11.6 years, 52 men and 116 women) with different subtypes of acute ischemic strokes within 24 hours and at 7 days after stroke onset as toast and ocsp criteria, nihss and glasgow coma score at baseline and at 7 days were used. the level of plasma pro-bnp may be useful in distinguishing ce stroke from other stroke subtypes.
Delayed imaging in routine CT examinations of the abdomen and pelvis: is it worth the additional cost of radiation and time? [SEP] delayed imaging in routine ct examinations of the abdomen and pelvis: is it worth the additional cost of radiation and time? the purpose of this study was to retrospectively assess the potential benefits of delayed phase imaging series in routine ct scans of the abdomen and pelvis. routine contrast-enhanced abdominopelvic ct scans of 1000 consecutively examined patients (912 men, 88 women; average age, 60 years; range, 22-94 years) were retrospectively evaluated, and the added benefits of the delayed phase series through the abdomen were recorded for each examination. examinations performed for indications requiring multiphasic imaging were excluded. images were reviewed by two fellowship-trained abdominal radiologists, who were blinded to official ct reports. radiation doses for both the portal venous and delayed phases, when available, were analyzed to assess the effect of the delayed phase on overall radiation exposure. most were incidental findings that could have been confirmed at noninvasive follow-up imaging, such as sonography or unenhanced ct or mri. in the other 958 patients (95.8%), delayed imaging was of no benefit. in addition, use of the delayed phase resulted in a mean 59.5% increase in effective radiation dose. an additional delayed phase through the abdomen in routine contrast-enhanced ct examinations of the abdomen and pelvis is of low yield, particularly if reliable follow-up imaging to further elucidate uncertain findings is available.
Suturing of the nasal septum after septoplasty, is it an effective alternative to nasal packing? [SEP] 
Have antiepileptic drug prescription claims changed following the FDA suicidality warning? [SEP] have antiepileptic drug prescription claims changed following the fda suicidality warning? an evaluation in a state medicaid program. in january 2008, the food and drug administration (fda) communicated concerns and, in may 2009, issued a warning about an increased risk of suicidality for all antiepileptic drugs (aeds). this research evaluated the association between the fda suicidality communications and the aed prescription claims among members with epilepsy and/or psychiatric disorder. the study included 9289 continuously eligible members with prevalent diagnoses of epilepsy and/or psychiatric disorder and at least one aed prescription claim. trends, expressed as monthly changes in the log odds of aed prescription claims, were compared across three time periods: before (january 2006 to january 2008), during (february 2008 to may 2009), and after (june 2009 to december 2009) the fda warning. before the fda warning period, a significant upward trend of aed prescription claims of 0.01% per month (99% ci: 0.008% to 0.013%, p<0.0001) was estimated. in comparison to the prewarning period, no significant change in trend was detected during (-20.0%, 99% ci: -70.0% to 30.0%, p=0.34) or after (80.0%, 99% ci: -20.0% to 200.0%, p=0.03) the fda warning period. after stratification, no diagnostic group (i.e., epilepsy alone, epilepsy and comorbid psychiatric disorder, and psychiatric disorder alone) experienced a significant change in trend during the entire study period (p>0.01). during the time period considered, the fda aed-related suicidality warning does not appear to have significantly affected prescription claims of aed medications for the study population.
Does ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament affect the neurological outcome after traumatic cervical cord injury? [SEP] does ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament affect the neurological outcome after traumatic cervical cord injury? retrospective outcome measurement study. the purpose of this study is to assess whether ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (opll) affects neurologic outcomes in patients with acute cervical spinal cord injury (sci). there have so far been few reports examining the relationship between opll and sci and there is controversy regarding the deteriorating effects of opll-induced canal stenosis on neurologic outcomes. to obtain a relatively uniform background, patients nonsurgically treated for an acute c3-c4 level sci without any fractures or dislocations of the spinal column were selected, resulting in 129 patients. there were 110 men and 19 women (mean age was 61.1 years), having various neurologic conditions on admission (american spinal injury association [asia] impairment scale a, 43; b, 16; c, 58; d, 12). the presence of opll, the cause of injury, the degree of canal stenosis (both static and dynamic), and the neurologic outcomes in motor function, including improvement rate, were assessed. of the 129 patients investigated in this study, opll was identified at the site of the injury in 13 patients (10.1%). furthermore, no significant correlation was observed between the static/dynamic canal diameters and neurologic outcome in all 129 patients. no evidence was found for opll to have any effect on the initial neurologic status or recovery in motor function after traumatic cervical cord injury, suggesting that the neurologic outcome is not significantly dependent on canal space.
Can distal ureteral diameter predict reflux resolution after endoscopic injection? [SEP] can distal ureteral diameter measurement predict primary vesicoureteral reflux clinical outcome and success of endoscopic injection? the objective of the study was to evaluate the predictive value of distal ureteral diameter ratio (udr) on outcome of primary vesicoureteral reflux (vur) and reflux resolution after endoscopic injection. ureteral diameter ratio was calculated on the initial vcug at the time of the diagnosis as the largest ureteral diameter within the false pelvis divided by the distance between l1-l3.the correlation between udr, clinical outcome (spontaneous resolution/surgical correction) and success of endoscopic injection was evaluated by logistic regression analysis. the predictive value of udr for spontaneous resolution was more significant than grade (p < 0.001).there was no spontaneous resolution in patients with udr over 0.45.321 patients underwent operation (248 endoscopic injection, 17 ureteroneocystostomy, 56 endoscopic injection+ureteroneocystostomy). when the predictive value of the reflux grade and udr in the success rate of endoscopic correction was compared, udr was shown to be significantly more predictive than the grade of reflux (p < 0.05). ureteral diameter ratio was significantly higher in patients whose injection treatment was unsuccessful. ureteral diameter ratio is an objective measurement of vur and appears to be a new predictive tool for clinical outcome and success after endoscopic injection. can distal ureteral diameter predict reflux resolution after endoscopic injection? to test the predictive value of distal ureteral diameter (ud) on reflux resolution after endoscopic injection in children with primary vesicoureteral reflux (vur). the effect of grade, ud, and udr on success after endoscopic injection was tested.
Is leptin involved in phagocytic NADPH oxidase overactivity in obesity? [SEP] is leptin involved in phagocytic nadph oxidase overactivity in obesity? hyperleptinemia and oxidative stress play a major role in the development of cardiovascular diseases in obesity. this study aimed to investigate whether there is a relationship between plasma levels of leptin and phagocytic nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (nadph) oxidase activity, and its potential relevance in the vascular remodeling in obese patients. phagocytic nadph oxidase activity and leptin levels were enhanced (p < 0.05) in obese patients compared with controls. nadph oxidase activity positively correlated with leptin in obese patients. in addition, cimt also correlated positively with leptin and nadph oxidase activity in obese patients. in-vitro studies showed that leptin induced nadph oxidase activation. finally, leptin-induced nadph oxidase activation promoted macrophage proliferation. these findings show that phagocytic nadph oxidase activity is increased in obesity and is related to preclinical atherosclerosis in this condition. we also suggest that hyperleptinemia may contribute to phagocytic nadph oxidase overactivity in obesity.
Canada's Compassionate Care Benefit: is it an adequate public health response to addressing the issue of caregiver burden in end-of-life care? [SEP] 
Fatigue in primary Sjögren's syndrome: is there a link with the fibromyalgia syndrome? [SEP] 
Is laparoscopic sonography a reliable and sensitive procedure for staging colorectal cancer? [SEP] comparison of laparoscopic ultrasound and liver-specific magnetic resonance imaging for staging colorectal liver metastases. intraoperative liver ultrasound appears superior to liver-specific contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (mri) to stage colorectal liver metastases (crlms). laparoscopic ultrasound (lus) is technically demanding and its reliability is poor investigated. laparoscopic liver ultrasound improves liver staging for crlms compared to liver-specific mri. comparison of laparoscopic and open intraoperative ultrasonography for staging liver tumours. impact of miniprobe ultrasonography on planning of minimally invasive surgery for gastric and colonic tumors. the aim of this study was to investigate the role of high-frequency miniprobe endoscopic ultrasound (eus) for therapeutic decisions making in patients with gastric or colonic tumors. is laparoscopic sonography a reliable and sensitive procedure for staging colorectal cancer? we evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of lus in comparison with preoperative staging and laparoscopy in 33 patients with colorectal cancer. the results obtained in this study demonstrate that lus is an accurate and highly sensitive procedure in staging colorectal cancer, providing a useful and reliable diagnostic tool complementary to laparoscopy.
Is alexithymia a risk factor for unexplained physical symptoms in general medical outpatients? [SEP] we focused on investigating if the presence of psychological symptoms, alexithymia, or pain could be risk factors for somatic symptoms in a secondary health care service. alexithymia does not predict the persistence of medically unexplained physical symptoms. alexithymia is thought to be associated with the development of medically unexplained physical symptoms (ups). is alexithymia a risk factor for unexplained physical symptoms in general medical outpatients? alexithymia is presumed to play an important predisposing role in the pathogenesis of medically unexplained physical symptoms. however, no research on alexithymia has been done among general medical outpatients who present with medically unexplained physical symptoms as their main problem and in which anxiety and depression have been considered as possible confounding factors. this study investigated whether patients with medically unexplained physical symptoms are more alexithymic than those with explained symptoms and whether, in patients with unexplained symptoms, alexithymia is associated with subjective health experience and use of medical services. in patients with unexplained physical symptoms, alexithymia was not associated with subjective health experience or use of medical services. however, patients with both unexplained symptoms and a mental disorder who also denied any possible connection between emotional problems and their physical symptoms did have more alexithymic traits. in the majority of patients with medically unexplained physical symptoms, alexithymia does not play a role of clinical significance.
Alcohol consumption and acute myocardial infarction: a benefit of alcohol consumed with meals? [SEP] the consumption of alcoholic beverages in general is harmful to health, although a certain protection against the development of acute myocardial infarction has been observed in association with low consumption and a pattern of intake with meals and from middle age onwards. alcohol consumption and acute myocardial infarction: a benefit of alcohol consumed with meals? the apparent favorable effect of alcohol on the risk of acute myocardial infarction (mi) may be related to its hypoinsulinemic effect when consumed with meals. we studied how the timing of alcohol consumption in relation to meals might affect the risk of mi in a population with relatively high regular alcohol consumption. alcohol drinking during meals was inversely related with risk of acute mi, whereas alcohol drinking outside meals only was unrelated to risk. type of alcoholic beverage and first acute myocardial infarction: a case-control study in a mediterranean country. we assessed the association of wine, red wine, and the pattern of drinking wine during meals with the risk of myocardial infarction. we specifically evaluated three hypotheses: (1) is the protection against incidence of nonfatal myocardial infarction stronger for wine than for other alcoholic beverages? however, after controlling for total alcohol intake, wine consumption (g/day) improved the prediction of a myocardial infarction. our data showed that red wine or drinking wine during meals was similar to alcohol from other sources for reducing coronary risk.
Do mossy fibers release GABA? [SEP] a hippocampal mossy fiber synapse implicated in learning and memory is a complex structure in which a presynaptic bouton attaches to the dendritic trunk by puncta adherentia junctions (pajs) and wraps multiply branched spines. we previously showed that the scaffolding protein afadin regulates the formation of the pajs, psds, and active zones in the mossy fiber synapse. these include the axonal sodium, potassium, and leak channels as well as presynaptic calcium channels composed of p/q-, n-, and r-types, which are reconstructed from the properties of those recorded from mossy fiber boutons experimentally. since the previous experimental study by simultaneous pre and postsynaptic recordings demonstrated that epresps enhanced action potential-evoked transmitter release from the mossy fiber terminals, it has been suggested that different mechanisms from the enhancement of action potential-evoked presynaptic calcium entry may involve enhanced transmitter release by epresp. small calcium entry by subthreshold epresps may enhance transmitter release from the mossy fiber terminals by acting as high-affinity calcium sensors for enhancing transmitter release. cerebellar granule cells (gcs) relay mossy fiber (mf) inputs to purkinje cell dendrites via their axons, the parallel fibers (pfs), which are individually located at a given sublayer of the molecular layer (ml). supramammillary nucleus afferents to the dentate gyrus co-release glutamate and gaba and potentiate granule cell output. here, we report that axons of sum neurons make monosynaptic connections to granule cells (gcs) and gabaergic interneurons, but not to hilar mossy cells, in the dg and co-release glutamate and γ-aminobutyric acid (gaba) at these synapses. the activity of cn neurons is controlled not only by excitatory inputs from mossy and climbing fibers and by γ-aminobutyric acid (gaba)-based inhibitory transmission from purkinje cells in the cerebellar cortex but is also modulated by inputs from other brain regions, including serotonergic fibers that originate in the dorsal raphe nuclei. although there was a strong correlation between the gaba release probability and the magnitude of 5-ht-induced inhibition, manipulating the release probability by changing extracellular ca
The clinical significance of bile duct sludge: is it different from bile duct stones? [SEP] utility of common bile duct identification on biliary ultrasound in emergency department patients. we propose a consensus definition for the localisation, ultrasound morphology and diameter of biliary sludge and microlithiasis as distinct entities. the clinical significance of bile duct sludge: is it different from bile duct stones? some patients with suspected common bile duct (cbd) stones are found to have sludge and no stones. although sludge in the gallbladder is a precursor of gallbladder stones, the significance of bile duct sludge (bds) is poorly defined. this study aimed to compare bds with bile duct stones in terms of frequency, associated risk factors, and clinical outcome after endoscopic therapy. bile duct sludge occurred in 14% (31/228) of patients and was more common in females. bile duct sludge seems to be an early stage of choledocholithiasis. prevalence and laparoscopic ultrasound patterns of choledocholithiasis and biliary sludge during cholecystectomy. a large amount of mucus secreted from the affected ducts was seen within the biliary sludge and calcium bilirubinate stones were found in the involved ductal lumena.
Are IgM-enriched immunoglobulins an effective adjuvant in septic VLBW infants? [SEP] are igm-enriched immunoglobulins an effective adjuvant in septic vlbw infants? to investigate the effectiveness of igm-enriched immunoglobulins (igm-eivig) in reducing short-term mortality of neonates with proven late-onset sepsis. all vlbw infants from january 2008 to december 2012 with positive blood culture beyond 72 hours of life were enrolled in a retrospective cohort study. newborns born after june 2010 were treated with igm-eivig, 250 mg/kg/day iv for three days in addition to standard antibiotic regimen and compared to an historical cohort born before june 2010, receiving antimicrobial regimen alone. short-term mortality (i.e. secondary outcomes were: total mortality, intraventricular hemorrhage, necrotizing enterocolitis, periventricular leukomalacia, bronchopulmonary dysplasia at discharge. 79 neonates (40 cases) were enrolled. no difference in birth weight, gestational age or snap ii score (disease severity score) were found. significantly reduced short-term mortality was found in treated infants (22% vs 46%; p = 0.005) considering all microbial aetiologies and the subgroup affected by candida spp. this hypothesis-generator study shows that igm-eivig is an effective adjuvant therapy in vlbw infants with proven sepsis.
Is resected stomach volume related to weight loss after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy? [SEP] influence of antrum size on gastric emptying and weight-loss outcomes after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (preliminary analysis of a randomized trial). influence of the resected gastric volume on the weight loss after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. the relation between the resected gastric volume and the weight loss after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy appears conflicting in the literature. both the residual and the resected volumes represent the total gastric volume, and if the weight loss is related to one of the two volumes, it should be related to the other. while some reports indicate that the weight loss is related to the resected gastric volume, others state that the weight loss is not related to the residual volume. the aim is to investigate the influence of the resected gastric volume on the weight loss after surgery. preoperative bmi correlated with resected gastric volume (r = 0.239, p = 0.004). is resected stomach volume related to weight loss after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy? resected stomach volume was greater in patients with higher preoperative body mass index and was positively associated with resected stomach weight. resected stomach volume was significantly greater in patients with higher preoperative body mass index.
Resection of colorectal liver metastases after second-line chemotherapy: is it worthwhile? [SEP] resection of colorectal liver metastases after second-line chemotherapy: is it worthwhile? a livermetsurvey analysis of 6415 patients. patient outcome after resection of colorectal liver metastases (clm) following second-line preoperative chemotherapy (pct) performed for insufficient response or toxicity of the first-line, is little known and has here been compared to the outcome following first-line. from january 2005 to june 2013, 5624 and 791 consecutive patients of a prospective international cohort received 1 and 2 pct lines before clm resection (group 1 and 2, respectively). after hepatectomy, disease-free survival (dfs) was however shorter in group 2: 17.2 months, 27% and 15% versus 19.4 months, 32% and 23%, respectively (p = 0.001). independent predictors of worse os in group 2 were positive primary lymph nodes, extrahepatic disease, tumour progression on second line, r2 resection and number of hepatectomies/year <50. positive primary nodes, synchronous and bilateral metastases were predictors of shorter dfs. clm resection following second-line pct, after oncosurgically favourable selection, could bring similar os compared to what observed after first-line. for initially unresectable patients, os or dfs is comparable between first- and second-line pct. surgery should not be denied after the failure of first-line chemotherapy.
Do ART patients face higher C-section rates during their stage of delivery? [SEP] do art patients face higher c-section rates during their stage of delivery? after assisted reproductive technology (art), previous studies have shown elevated c-section rates but few studies differentiated between elective and emergency operations and different protocols of cryopreservation. because these studies did not use multiparity as exclusion criteria which reduces confounding with previous pregnancies, aim of this study is to compare mode of delivery of different techniques of art using data of primiparae only [1, 2]. patients were divided in different groups according to their way of conception: spontaneous conception and conception after art. the group of art was further divided into: (a) a group of fresh transferred embryos (ivf/icsi), (b) vitrification and (c) slow freezing. main parameter of this study was mode of delivery which was divided into spontaneous delivery or c-section. c-sections were further differentiated into elective or emergency c-sections. the group of fresh transferred embryos and slow freezing showed higher risks for elective and emergency c-sections (elective c-sections odds ratio 2.0, ci 95% 1.6-2.6, emergency c-sections odds ratio 1.4, ci 95% 1.1-1.9). moreover, all groups of art show enhanced risk of significant perinatal bleeding. patients after art treatment suffer from higher c-section rates during their stage of delivery.
Does a preoperative medically supervised weight loss program improve bariatric surgery outcomes? [SEP] do mandated weight loss goals prior to bariatric surgery improve postoperative outcomes? most patients pursuing bariatric surgery undergo mandated preoperative weight management programs. the purpose of this study was to assess whether preoperative mandated weight loss goals lead to improved perioperative morbidity, postoperative weight loss, and resolution of comorbidities. postoperative outcomes in bariatric surgical patients participating in an insurance-mandated preoperative weight management program. to evaluate the relationship between preoperative insurance-mandated wmp participation and postoperative outcomes in bariatric surgery patients. these data show that patients who participate in an insurance-mandated wmp in addition to completing a program-directed preoperative diet experience no significant benefit to rate of readmission, reoperation, follow-up, or %ewl up to 12 months postoperation. outcomes associated with preoperative weight loss after laparoscopic roux-en-y gastric bypass. this study suggests preoperative weight loss requirements may delay the time to operation without improving postoperative outcomes or weight loss. this confirms the clinical efficacy of such a weight management programme prior to gastric bypass surgery and supports its inclusion in eligibility criteria for bariatric surgery. does a preoperative medically supervised weight loss program improve bariatric surgery outcomes?
Is solitary kidney really more resistant to ischemia? [SEP] is solitary kidney really more resistant to ischemia? to our knowledge there are no evidence-based medicine data to date to critically judge the vulnerability of a solitary kidney to warm ischemia compared to paired kidneys. ten dogs were exposed to open right nephrectomy to create a solitary kidney model (group 1). solitary kidney in a canine model is more resistant to ischemia than paired kidneys based on radiological, pathological and genetic evidence. in this study the consequences of unilateral nephrectomy on the survival rate of rats were examined under severe pathological conditions including injection of a lethal dose of endotoxin (exogenic lps), cecal puncture (endogenic lps), injection of lps concomitantly with renal ischemia as well as a simultaneous injection of lps and glycerol to the leg muscle in order to induce acute renal failure. sham operated rats did not exhibit higher survival rates than the nephrectomized rats. a possible explanation for our results is that the solitary kidney excretes more lps into the urine. in this study the consequences of unilateral nephrectomy on the survival rate of rats were examined under severe pathological conditions including injection of a lethal dose of endotoxin (exogenic lps), cecal puncture (endogenic lps), injection of lps concomitantly with renal ischemia as well as a simultaneous injection of lps and glycerol to the leg muscle in order to induce acute renal failure. sham operated rats did not exhibit higher survival rates than the nephrectomized rats. a possible explanation for our results is that the solitary kidney excretes more lps into the urine.
Neck pain treatment with acupuncture: does the number of needles matter? [SEP] 3,5,11 needles: looking for the perfect number of needles--a randomized and controlled study. however, the number of needles used, i.e. the question was addressed comparing the clinical efficacy of 3 different therapeutic schemes, mainly characterized by different numbers of needles used on 90 patients affected by a painful cervical myofascial syndrome. patients were divided into 3 groups; the first group of 30 patients was treated with 11 needles, the second group of 30 patients was treated with 5 needles and the third group of 30 patients was treated with 3 needles. for this pathology and patients of this kind, the number of needles, 3 or 5 or 11, seems not to be an important variable in determining the therapeutic effect. neck pain treatment with acupuncture: does the number of needles matter? however, the number of needles used, that is, the dose of acupuncture stimulation, to obtain the best antinociceptive efficacy is still a matter of debate. the question was addressed comparing the clinical efficacy of two different therapeutic schemes, characterized by a different number of needles used on 36 patients between 29-60 years of age with by a painful cervical myofascial syndrome. patients were divided into two groups; the first group of 18 patients were treated with 5 needles and the second group of 18 patients were treated with 11 needles, the time of needle stimulation was the same in both groups: 100 seconds. for this pathology, the number of needles, 5 or 11, seems not to be an important variable in determining the therapeutic effect when the time of stimulation is the same in the two groups.
Pertrochanteric fractures: is there an advantage to an intramedullary nail? [SEP] 
SPECT study with I-123-Ioflupane (DaTSCAN) in patients with essential tremor. Is there any correlation with Parkinson's disease? [SEP] spect study with i-123-ioflupane (datscan) in patients with essential tremor. is there any correlation with parkinson's disease? the differential diagnosis between essential tremor (et) and parkinson's disease (pd) may be, in some cases, very difficult on clinical grounds alone. ioflupane, n-u-fluoropropyl-2a-carbomethoxy-3a-(4-iodophenyl) nortropane, also called fp-cit, labelled with (123)i (commercially known as datscan) has been proven to be useful in the differential diagnosis between pd and et and to confirm dopaminergic degeneration in patients with parkinsonism. the aim of this study is to identify dopaminergic degeneration in patients with pd and distinguish them from others with et using semi-quantitative spect (123)i-ioflupane (datscan) data in comparison with normal volunteers (nv), in addition with the respective ones of patients referred as suffering from et, as well as, of patients with a pd diagnosis at an initial stage with a unilateral presentation of motor signs. we used datscan to obtain spect images and measure the radiopharmaceutical uptake in the striatum (s), as well as the caudate nucleus (cn) and putamen (p) in all individuals. there was also a significant reduction in the tracer accumulation in the left putamen of patients with right hemi-parkinsonism compared to et and nv. patients with left hemi-parkinsonism, demonstrated reduced radioligand uptake in the right putamen in comparison with et and nv. our results do not support the hypothesis of a link between essential tremor and parkinson's disease. follow-up studies of essential tremor patients are warranted to assess progression of disease and to understand better the possible cause for striatal dopaminergic degeneration.
Are the GFRUP's recommendations for withholding or withdrawing treatments in critically ill children applicable? [SEP] children who have suffered from critical illnesses that required treatment in a paediatric intensive care unit (picu) have long-term physical and neurodevelopmental impairments. cost-effectiveness study of early versus late parenteral nutrition in critically ill children (pepanic): preplanned secondary analysis of a multicentre randomised controlled trial. the multicentre randomised controlled pepanic trial showed that withholding parenteral nutrition (pn) during the first week of critical illness in children was clinically superior to providing early pn. late initiation of pn decreased the direct medical costs for hospitalisation in critically ill children, beyond the expected lower costs for withholding pn. are the gfrup's recommendations for withholding or withdrawing treatments in critically ill children applicable? to evaluate feasibility of the guidelines of the groupe francophone de réanimation et urgence pédiatriques (french-speaking group of paediatric intensive and emergency care; gfrup) for limitation of treatments in the paediatric intensive care unit (picu). a limitation decision was made without meeting for 7 children who died: 6 received do-not-resuscitate orders (dnros) and 1 received withholding decision. decision-making meetings were organised for 31 children, and the following decisions were made: 12 dnros (6 deaths and 6 survivals), 4 withholding (1 death and 3 survivals), with 14 withdrawing (14 deaths) and 1 continuing treatment (survival). gfrups procedure was applicable in most cases. children for whom the procedure was interrupted because of clinical improvement and who survived in poor condition without a formal decision pointed out the need for medical criteria for questioning, which should systematically lead to a formal decision-making process.
Is inhaled prophylactic heparin useful for prevention and Management of Pneumonia in ventilated ICU patients? [SEP] mebazaa p092 - correlation between percentages of ventilated patients developed vap and use of antimicrobial agents in icu patients. a. vakalos, v. avramidis p093 - a comparison of two ventilator associated pneumonia surveillance techniques t. h. craven, g. wojcik, k. kefala, j. mccoubrey, j. reilly, r. paterson, d. inverarity, i. laurenson, t. s. walsh p094 - lung ultrasound before and after fiberbronchoscopy - modifications may improve ventilator-associated pneumonia diagnosis s. mongodi, b. bouhemad, a. orlando, a. stella, g. via, g. iotti, a. braschi, f. mojoli p095 - comparing the accuracy of predictors of mortality in ventilator-associated pneumonia m. haliloglu, b. bilgili, u. kasapoglu, i. sayan, m. süzer aslan, a. yalcın, i. cinel p096 - impact of prbcs transfusion on percentage of ventilated patients developed vap in icu patients a. vakalos, v. avramidis p097 - the impact of a series of interventions on the rate of ventilator associated pneumonia in a large teaching hospital h. e. ellis, k. bauchmuller, d. miller, a temple p098 - the evade study: prevention of nosocomial pneumonia (np) caused by p aeruginosa with medi3902, a novel bispecific monoclonal antibody, against p aeruginosa virulence factors j. chastre, b. françois, a. torres, c. e. luyt, m. sánchez, m. singer, h. s. jafri p099 - short-term inhaled colistin adjunctive therapy for ventilator-associated pneumonia y. nassar, m. s. ayad p100 - effect of aerosolised colistin on weaning from mechanical ventilation a. trifi, s. abdellatif, f. daly, r. nasri, s. ben lakhal p101 - septic shock is an independent risk factor for colistin-induced severe acute kidney injury: a retrospective cohort study b. bilgili, m. haliloglu, f. gul, i. cinel p102 - nosocomial pneumonia - emphasis on inhaled tobramycin a. kuzovlev, a. shabanov, s. polovnikov, v. moroz p103 - in vitro evaluation of amikacin inhale and commercial nebulizers in a mechanical ventilator n. kadrichu, t. dang, k. corkery, p. challoner p104 - the effects of nebulized amikacin/fosfomycin and systemic meropenem on severe amikacin-resistant meropenem-susceptible p.aeruginosa pneumonia g. li bassi, e. aguilera, c. chiurazzi, c. travierso, a. motos, l. fernandez, r. amaro, t. senussi, f. idone, j. bobi, m. rigol, a. torres p105 - optimization of gentamicin peak concentrations in critically ill patients c. j. hodiamont, n. p. juffermans, j. m. janssen, c. s. bouman, r. a. mathôt, m. d. de jong, r. m. van hest p106 - systematic review of cefepime induced neurotoxicity l. payne, g. l. fraser p107 - unasyn® causes qt prolongation during treatment of intensive care patients b. tudor, m. lahner, g. roth, c. krenn p108 - comparative study between teicoplanin and vancomycin in methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) infectious of toxicological intensive care unit (ticu) patients – tehran, iran h. talaie p109 - phage therapy against antimicrobial resistance, design of the first clinical study phagoburn p. jault, j. gabard, t. leclerc, s. jennes, y. que, a. rousseau, f. ravat p110 - antibiotic dosing errors in critically ill patients with severe sepsis or septic shock h. al-dorzi, a. eissa, s. al-harbi, t. aldabbagh, r. khan, y. arabi p111 - does empiric antifungal therapy improve survival in septic critically ill patients? is inhaled prophylactic heparin useful for prevention and management of pneumonia in ventilated icu patients? the purpose was to determine the efficacy of prophylactic inhaled heparin for the prevention and treatment of pneumonia in patients receiving mechanical ventilation (mv). patients aged at least 18 years and requiring invasive mv for more than 48 hours were randomized to usual care, nebulization of unfractionated sodium heparin (5000 u in 2 ml), or nebulization with 0.9% sodium chloride (2 ml) 4 times daily with the main outcome measures, the development of ventilator-associated pneumonia (vap), ventilator-associated complication, and sequential organ failure assessment scores in patients with admission pneumonia or developing vap. low-dose nebulized heparin cannot be recommended for prophylaxis against vap or to hasten recovery from pneumonia in patients receiving mv. is inhaled prophylactic heparin useful for prevention and management of pneumonia in ventilated icu patients? to determine whether prophylactic inhaled heparin is effective for the prevention and treatment of pneumonia patients receiving mechanical ventilation (mv) in the intensive care unit. patients aged ≥18years and requiring invasive mv for more than 48hours were randomized to usual care, nebulization of unfractionated sodium heparin (5000 units in 2ml) or placebo nebulization with 0.9% sodium chloride (2ml) four times daily with the main outcome measures of the development of ventilator associated pneumonia (vap), ventilator associated complication (vac) and sequential organ failure assessment scores in patients with pneumonia on admission or who developed vap. nebulized heparin cannot be recommended for prophylaxis against vap or to hasten recovery from pneumonia in patients receiving mv.
Is the h-index predictive of greater NIH funding success among academic radiologists? [SEP] 
Is minimally invasive mitral valve repair with artificial chords reproducible and applicable in routine surgery? [SEP] is minimally invasive mitral valve repair with artificial chords reproducible and applicable in routine surgery? traditional resectional techniques and chordal transfer are difficult to apply in video-assisted mitral valve repair. using artificial chords appears easier in this setting. the purpose of this study was to review the effectiveness and reproducibility of neochordal repair as a routine approach to minimally invasive mitral repair, and to assess the stability of neochord implantation using the figure-of-eight suture without pledgets in this setting. this is a retrospective review of all patients who underwent minimally invasive video-assisted mitral valve repair from 2008 to 2013. the primary endpoints were recurrent mitral regurgitation and reoperation. one patient was not repairable and underwent valve replacement (repair rate, 99.8%). follow-up ranged 3-60 months, during which all of the patients remained with no or trace mitral regurgitation. minimally invasive mitral valve repair using neochords provided a high rate of repair, reproducible results in a routine cardiac surgery setting and stable repair during follow-up. this has become our preferred technique for mitral valve surgery.
Does obesity predict knee pain over fourteen years in women, independently of radiographic changes? [SEP] does obesity predict knee pain over fourteen years in women, independently of radiographic changes? to examine longitudinal patterns in body mass index (bmi) over 14 years and its association with knee pain in the chingford study. knee pain at y15 was assessed by questionnaire. associations between bmi over 14 years and knee pain at y15 were examined using logistic regression. a greater bmi at y1 (odds ratio [or] 1.34, 95% confidence interval [95% ci] 1.05-1.69), at y15 (or 1.34, 95% ci 1.10-1.61), and change in bmi over 15 years (or 1.40, 95% ci 1.00-1.93) were significant predictors of knee pain at y15 (p < 0.05). bmi change was associated with bilateral (or 1.61, 95% ci 1.05-1.76, p = 0.024) but not unilateral knee pain (or 1.22, 95% ci 0.73-1.76, p = 0.298). the association between bmi change and knee pain was independent of radiographic knee osteoarthritis (oa). the strength of association between bmi and knee pain at y15 was similar during followup measurements. over 14 years, a higher bmi predicts knee pain at y15 in women, independently of radiographic knee oa. the longitudinal effect of bmi on knee pain at y15 is equally important at any time point, which may assist reducing the population burden of knee pain.
Do liquid-based preparations of urinary cytology perform differently than classically prepared cases? [SEP] do liquid-based preparations of urinary cytology perform differently than classically prepared cases? observations from the college of american pathologists interlaboratory comparison program in nongynecologic cytology. the cytomorphology of liquid-based preparations in urine cytology is different than classic slide preparations. to compare the performance of liquid-based preparation specimens to classically prepared urine specimens with a malignant diagnosis in the college of american pathologists interlaboratory comparison program in nongynecologic cytology. participant responses between 2000 and 2007 for urine specimens with a reference diagnosis of high-grade urothelial carcinoma/carcinoma in situ/dysplasia (hguca), squamous cell carcinoma, or adenocarcinoma were evaluated. cytotechnologists demonstrate statistically better performance for the general category of "positive-malignant" compared with pathologists for all urinary slide types and for the exact reference interpretation of hguca (94% versus 91.1%; p < .001) but not adenocarcinoma (96.3% versus 95.8%; p = .77) or squamous cell carcinoma (93.6% versus 87.7%; p = .07). liquid-based preparations performed significantly better in urinary cytology challenges when evaluating malignant categories in the college of american pathologists interlaboratory comparison program. the liquid-based preparation challenges also performed better for the exact reference interpretation of hguca, but no difference was observed for adenocarcinoma challenges. cytotechnologists perform better than pathologists for all slide types, as well as those demonstrating hguca. these results suggest that liquid-based preparations facilitate a more accurate diagnosis than conventional preparations.
Outcomes of severely injured adult trauma patients in an Australian health service: does trauma center level make a difference? [SEP] 
Does a well developed collateral circulation predispose to restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention? [SEP] does a well developed collateral circulation predispose to restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention? to evaluate whether a well developed collateral circulation predisposes to restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention (pci). 58 patients undergoing elective single vessel pci in a tertiary referral interventional cardiac unit in the uk. collateral flow index (cfi) was calculated as (pw-pv)/(pa-pv), where pa, pw, and pv are aortic, coronary wedge, and right atrial pressures during maximum hyperaemia. collateral supply was considered poor (cfi < 0.25) or good (cfi > or = 0.25). in-stent restenosis six months after pci, classified as neointimal volume > or = 25% stent volume on intravascular ultrasound (ivus), or minimum lumen area < or = 50% stent area on ivus, or minimum lumen diameter < or = 50% reference vessel diameter on quantitative coronary angiography. patients with good collaterals had more severe coronary stenoses at baseline (90 (11)% v 75 (16)%, p < 0.001). restenosis rates were similar in poor and good collateral groups (35% v 43%, p = 0.76 for diameter restenosis, 27% v 45%, p = 0.34 for area restenosis, and 23% v 24%, p = 0.84 for volumetric restenosis). by multivariate analysis, stent diameter, stent length, > 10% residual stenosis, and smoking history were predictive of restenosis. a well developed collateral circulation does not predict an increased risk of restenosis after pci.
Does route of delivery affect maternal and perinatal outcome in women with eclampsia? [SEP] analysis of the maternal complications (incidence of icu admissions, preeclampsia/eclampsia, renal or cardiovascular acute dysfunction, hellp syndrome, placental abruption, maternal death) and fetal/neonatal outcome. women with hypertensive disorders of pregnancy are more likely to have received medical or obstetric interventions such as caesarean section operations. pregnancies complicated by preeclampsia and eclampsia may be associated with life-threatening complications for both the mother and infant. does route of delivery affect maternal and perinatal outcome in women with eclampsia? the route of delivery in eclampsia is controversial. in all, 200 eclampsia cases, carrying ≥34 weeks, were allocated to either cesarean or vaginal delivery. a policy of early cesarean delivery in eclampsia, carrying ≥34 weeks, is not associated with better outcomes. presentation and outcome of eclampsia at a tertiary center in south east nigeria--a 6-year review. the case notes of 212 patients with eclampsia were analyzed with respect to age, parity, type of eclampsia, gestational age, booking status, mode of delivery, and outcome of the babies and mothers. eclampsia is a major cause of maternal mortality in nnewi, rural south east nigeria.
Surgical management of the atherosclerotic ascending aorta: is endoaortic balloon occlusion safe? [SEP] surgical management of the atherosclerotic ascending aorta: is endoaortic balloon occlusion safe? occlusion of the atherosclerotic ascending aorta by an endoaortic inflatable balloon has been proposed as an alternative to conventional cross-clamping to prevent injury to the vessel and distal embolization of debris. the safety and the effectiveness of endoaortic occlusion have not been documented in this setting. endoaortic occlusion was employed in 52 of 2,172 consecutive patients. surgeon's choice was based on preoperative identification of aortic calcifications or intraoperative epiaortic ultrasonographic scanning. in 10 patients (19.2%), the endoaortic balloon had to be replaced by the ordinary cross-clamp because of incomplete occlusion (n = 5), hindered exposure (n = 2), or balloon rupture (n = 3). the death rate of patients treated by endoaortic occlusion was significantly higher compared with all other patients (4.2%, p < 0.0001) and with the expected estimate by european system for cardiac operative risk evaluation (10.5%, p = 0.05). by multivariable analysis, use of endoaortic occlusion was independently associated with in-hospital death (odds ratio = 5.609, 95% confidence interval: 2.684 to 11.719). although the stroke rate was higher in the endoaortic occlusion group compared with all other patients, the difference was only possibly significant (3.8% versus 0.8%, p = 0.067). in this series, the endoaortic occlusion was frequently ineffective, and was associated with a significantly higher risk of in-hospital death and a numerically higher risk of stroke.
Estradiol and Antagonist Pretreatment Prior to Microdose Leuprolide in in Vitro Fertilization. Does It Improve IVF Outcomes in Poor Responders as Compared to Oral Contraceptive Pill? [SEP] estradiol and antagonist pretreatment prior to microdose leuprolide in in vitro fertilization. does it improve ivf outcomes in poor responders as compared to oral contraceptive pill? to compare in vitro fertilization (ivf) outcomes in low responders stimulated with microdose leuprolide protocol (ml) following pretreatment with either oral contraceptive pill (ocp) or luteal estradiol (e2) + gnrh antagonist (e2 + antag) for follicular synchronization prior to controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (coh). this was a retrospective study of 130 women, who were poor responders, undergoing ivf with either ocp/ml or e2+ antag/ml protocols. the main outcome measures were ongoing pregnancy rates, number of oocytes retrieved, and cancellation rate. there were no significant differences in gonadotropin requirement, cancellation rate, and number of embryos transferred. ongoing pregnancy rates (40% vs. 15%) were significantly higher in the ocp/ml group. trends toward greater number of oocytes retrieved (7.7 ± 3.4 vs. 5.9 ± 4.2) and improved implantation rates (20% vs. 12%) were also noted, but these did not reach statistical significance. e2+antag pretreatment does not appear to improve ivf outcomes in ml protocol when compared to the standard ocp in poor responders. randomized trials with adequate power to study the optimal method of steroid pretreatments appear justified.
Can teaching medical students to investigate medication errors change their attitudes towards patient safety? [SEP] can teaching medical students to investigate medication errors change their attitudes towards patient safety? the purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of a patient-safety curriculum administered during a paediatric clerkship on medical students' attitudes towards patient safety. medical students viewed an online video introducing them to systems-based analyses of medical errors. faculty presented an example of a medication administration error and demonstrated use of the learning from defects tool to investigate the defect. student groups identified and then analysed medication errors during their clinical rotation using the learning from defects framework to organise and present their findings. outcomes included patient safety attitudinal changes, as measured by questions derived from the safety attitudes questionnaire. all student groups (25 total) identified, analysed and presented patient safety concerns. curriculum effectiveness was demonstrated by significant changes on questionnaire items related to patient safety attitudes. the majority of students felt that the curriculum was relevant to their clinical rotation and should remain part of the clerkship. an active learning curriculum integrated into a clinical clerkship can change learners' attitudes towards patient safety.
Has the prevalence of health care services use increased over the last decade (2001-2009) in elderly people? [SEP] the aim of this study was to describe the time trends in antidepressant prescribing in the last decade and the variation in the prevalence, calculated in a uniform manner, in seven european electronic healthcare databases. in the majority of countries we observed an increasing trend of antidepressant prescribing over time. a cohort study of danish patients 2001-2009. has the prevalence of health care services use increased over the last decade (2001-2009) in elderly people? (1) to describe the prevalence of general practitioner visits and hospitalization according to sex and age groups; (2) to identify which factors are independently associated with a higher use of health care services among elderly spanish; and (3) to study the time trends in the prevalence of use of health care services 2001-2009. the variables that were significantly associated with a higher use of health care services were lower educational level, worse self-rated health, chronic conditions, polypharmacy, and the level of disability. the number of general practitioner visits among women and men significantly increased from 2001 to 2009 (women: or 1.43, 1.27-1.61; men: or 1.71, 1.49-1.97). the current study revealed an increase in health care services utilization from 2001 to 2009 in the older spanish population. this study explores whether changes in the availability of amphetamines in nsw in the last decade have been associated with variations in admission to mental health units for amphetamine related conditions and for psychoses more generally. increased amphetamine availability appears to have been one factor increasing demand for mental health admission in nsw over the last decade.
Does high-dose radiotherapy benefit palliative lung cancer patients? [SEP] feasibility and safety of shortened hypofractionated high-dose palliative lung radiotherapy - a retrospective planning study. assess the safety and feasibility of shortened hypofractionated high-dose palliative lung radiotherapy in a retrospective planning study. does high-dose radiotherapy benefit palliative lung cancer patients? the present analysis compares two palliative treatment concepts for lung cancer in terms of overall survival. the palliative treatment concept of 25 gy applied in 5 fractions is sufficient for radiation of lung cancer, given that there was no obvious survival improvement in patients treated with the higher total dose regimen. radiotherapy is one of the main treatment modalities in lung cancer, contributing to both its cure and palliation. split-course palliative radiotherapy for advanced non-small cell lung cancer. palliative chest radiotherapy (rt) for lung malignancies is effective in relieving serious chest symptoms from tumor bleeding or mass effect on major airways, vessels, and nerves. radiotherapy is one of the main treatment modalities in lung cancer, contributing to both its cure and palliation. radiotherapy for early and advanced breast cancer.
Is endothelin-1 an aggravating factor in the development of acute pancreatitis? [SEP] is endothelin-1 an aggravating factor in the development of acute pancreatitis? we have reported previously that cerulein-induced edematous pancreatitis would transform into hemorrhagic pancreatitis by administration of endothelin-1 in rats. acute hemorrhagic pancreatitis was induced in all rats treated with cerulin + stress. these results suggest that endothelin-1 should play a role in aggravating the development of acute hemorrhagic pancreatitis, through its action on the pancreatic microcirculation. effect of endothelin-1 on the development of hemorrhagic pancreatitis in rats. it has been hypothesized that microcirculatory disturbance plays an important role in the development of severe pancreatitis. in this study we investigated the effects of exogenous endothelin-1 on the development of severe pancreatitis in rats. acute pancreatitis was induced by two intraperitoneal injections of cerulein (10 micrograms/kg body weight). endothelin-1 was administered via an abdominal aortic catheter as a bolus of 250-750 pmol/kg bw every hour for 4 h. remarkable morphologic changes in the pancreas, including hemorrhage, and increases in serum amylase level and active elastase content in pancreatic tissue were observed in rats treated with cerulein plus endothelin-1 in a dose-dependent manner 5 h after the first cerulein injection. these results suggest that endothelin-1 causes pancreatic microcirculatory disturbance and might be a contributing factor in the aggravation of acute pancreatitis.
Malnutrition, a new inducer for arterial calcification in hemodialysis patients? [SEP] in intermediate and late stages, non-traditional risk factors, including iso-osmotic and non-osmotic sodium retention, volume expansion, anaemia, inflammation, malnutrition, sympathetic overactivity, mineral bone disorders, accumulation of a class of endogenous compounds called 'uremic toxins', and a variety of hormonal disorders are the main factors that accelerate the progression of cv disease in these patients. arterial disease in ckd patients is characterized by an almost unique propensity to calcification and vascular stiffness. malnutrition, a new inducer for arterial calcification in hemodialysis patients? arterial calcification is a significant cardiovascular risk factor in hemodialysis patients. a series of factors are involved in the process of arterial calcification; however, the relationship between malnutrition and arterial calcification is still unclear. 66.18% hemodialysis patients were malnutrition. in hemodialysis patients, the calcified depositions were mainly located in the medial layer of the radial arteries and the expressions of bmp2 and mgp were both increased in the calcified areas. the levels of serum albumin were negatively associated with calcification score and the expressions of bmp2 and mgp. malnutrition is prevalent in hemodialysis patients and is associated with arterial calcification and the expressions of bmp2 and mgp in calcified radial arteries. malnutrition may be a new inducer candidate for arterial calcification in hemodialysis patients.
Does glomerular hyperfiltration in pregnancy damage the kidney in women with more parities? [SEP] does glomerular hyperfiltration in pregnancy damage the kidney in women with more parities? we aimed to investigate the glomerular hyperfiltration due to pregnancy in women with more parities. five hundred women aged 52.57 +/- 8.08 years, without a history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus or complicated pregnancy were involved in the study. they were divided into three groups. group 1: women with no or one parity (n = 76); group 2: women with two or three parities (n = 333); group 3: women with four or more parities (n = 91). laboratory parameters and demographical data were compared between the three groups. mean age, serum urea and serum creatinine were similar between three groups. patients in group 3 had significantly higher gfr values compared to groups 1 and 2 (109.44 +/- 30.99, 110.76 +/- 30.22 and 121.92 +/- 34.73 ml/min/1.73 m(2) for groups 1, 2 and 3, respectively; p = 0.008 for group 1 vs group 3; p = 0.002 for group 2 vs group 3). in our study, we suggest that glomerular hyperfiltration due to pregnancy does not have adverse effects on kidney in women with more parities. pregnancy may have possible protective mechanisms for kidney against adverse effects of glomerular hyperfiltration.
Subclavian steal syndrome: can the blood pressure difference between arms predict the severity of steal? [SEP] subclavian steal syndrome: can the blood pressure difference between arms predict the severity of steal? a side-to-side difference in systolic brachial arterial blood pressure is a common finding in subclavian artery stenosis and is frequently used as a screening tool for subclavian steal syndrome (sss). it was the goal of this retrospective study to investigate the relationship between different vertebral artery waveform types and the side-to-side difference in systolic blood pressure in patients with sonographically proven sss. in all patients, bilateral brachial arterial blood pressure was measured in a sitting position prior to the ultrasound examination. blood pressure difference as calculated by normal-side blood pressure minus lesion-side blood pressure was compared with the 3 doppler waveform types. two patients (4%) had bilateral sss. in 3 patients (6%), sss was related to an innominate artery stenosis. systolic blood pressure difference was significantly higher in the complete reversal and alternating groups than in the systolic deceleration group (p < .001). brachial systolic blood pressure difference is related to the severity of sss and can be used as a screening tool for sss. however, it performed better in severe steal than milder steal phenomena.
Is eligibility for a chemotherapy protocol a good prognostic factor for invasive bladder cancer after radical cystectomy? [SEP] is eligibility for a chemotherapy protocol a good prognostic factor for invasive bladder cancer after radical cystectomy? to assess whether eligibility to an adjuvant chemotherapy protocol in itself represents a good prognostic factor after radical cystectomy for bladder cancer. between april 1984 and may 1989, our institution entered 35 patients with invasive bladder cancer into the swiss group for clinical and epidemiological cancer research (sakk) study 09/84. they were randomly assigned to either observation or three postoperative courses of cisplatin monotherapy after cystectomy. the outcome of these 35 patients (protocol group) was compared with an age- and tumor-stage-matched cohort (matched group; n = 35) who also underwent cystectomy during the same period, but were not entered into the sakk study, as well as the remaining 57 patients treated during the study period for the same indication (remaining group). median overall survival decreased from 76.3 months in the protocol group to 52.1 months in the matched group and to 20.3 months in the remaining group. the respective times of median recurrence-free survival were 67.2, 16.0, and 9.4 months. tumor progression occurred in 46% of the protocol group compared with 69% in the matched group and 65% in the remaining group (p < .05). cancer-related death was noted in 40% of the protocol group, 57% in the matched group, and 56% in the remaining group. these data suggest that being willing and fit enough for a chemotherapy protocol is a good prognostic factor for invasive bladder cancer.
Does a geriatric oncology consultation modify the cancer treatment plan for elderly patients? [SEP] impact of the comprehensive geriatric assessment on treatment decision in geriatric oncology. the effect of a geriatric evaluation on treatment decisions for older cancer patients--a systematic review. the aim of this systematic review is to summarise all available data on the effect of a geriatric evaluation on the multidisciplinary treatment of older cancer patients, focussing on oncologic treatment decisions and the implementation of non-oncologic interventions. a systematic search in medline and embase for studies on the effect of a geriatric evaluation on oncologic and non-oncologic treatment for older cancer patients. three studies used a geriatric consultation while seven used a geriatric assessment performed by a cancer specialist, healthcare worker or (research) nurse. six studies addressed a change in oncologic treatment, the initial treatment plan was modified in a median of 39% of patients after geriatric evaluation, of which two thirds resulted in less intensive treatment. a geriatric evaluation has significant impact on oncologic and non-oncologic treatment decisions in older cancer patients and deserves consideration in the oncologic work-up for these patients. does a geriatric oncology consultation modify the cancer treatment plan for elderly patients? this study was performed to describe the treatment plan modifications after a geriatric oncology clinic. the geriatric oncology consultation led to a modification of the cancer treatment plan in more than one third of cases.
Does left atrial appendage (LAA) occlusion device alter the echocardiography and electrocardiogram parameters in patients with atrial fibrillation? [SEP] does left atrial appendage (laa) occlusion device alter the echocardiography and electrocardiogram parameters in patients with atrial fibrillation? the alterations of echocardiography and electrocardiogram (ecg) in patients received left atrial appendage laa occlusion therapy are still unclear. the present study was to evaluate the influence of laa occlusion device on echocardiography and ecg changes in patients with atrial fibrillation (af). echocardiography and ecg results at pre- and post-operation were collected. besides, echocardiography was also performed during follow-up visits at 1, 6 and 12months after discharge. after laa occlusion, a slight and measureable movement of qrs electric axis was observed in most patients. there existed no significant difference in echocardiographic parameters between before and after device implantation. however, a larger left atrial (la) diameter was detected by echocardiography during follow-up visit at 6months when compared with pre-operation parameters. laa occlusion device resulted in a slightly movement in qrs axis, reduced hr and increased the mean-mean qt interval duration. in addition, la diameter and ard seemed to be larger after device implantation.
Can ki-67 play a role in prediction of breast cancer patients' response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy? [SEP] post-chemotherapy changes in ki-67 levels are linked to survival outcomes. ki-67 remains a key predictor of chemotherapy response, while mcm and pcna offer complementary prognostic insights. ki 67: a promising prognostic marker in early breast cancer-a review article. currently, clinical trials have been evaluating ki67 as a predictive marker for needing adjuvant chemotherapy in luminal early breast cancer patients receiving neoadjuvant endocrine therapy. the purpose of this review is to evaluate the benefits and drawbacks of utilizing ki-67 in early-stage breast cancer to prognosticate the disease and predict the risk of recurrence. pretreatment ki-67 and change of ki-67 may play a role as predictive factor for response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. can ki-67 play a role in prediction of breast cancer patients' response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy? the current study analyses the predictive value of ki-67 in foreseeing breast cancer patients' responses to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. our data shows that the ki-67 value predicts the response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy as a function of the molecular subtype, reflecting the daily routine concerning ki-67 and its impressing potential and limitation as a predictive marker for neoadjuvant chemotherapy response. ki67 has traditionally been recognized as a modest prognostic factor, but recent neoadjuvant studies suggest that on-treatment measurement may be a more effective predictor of treatment efficacy for both endocrine treatment and chemotherapy.
Intravenous administration of metoclopramide by 2 min bolus vs 15 min infusion: does it affect the improvement of headache while reducing the side effects? [SEP] intravenous administration of metoclopramide by 2 min bolus vs 15 min infusion: does it affect the improvement of headache while reducing the side effects? to determine the therapeutic effect (alleviation of vascular type headache) and side effects of a slow intravenous metoclopramide infusion over 15 min compared with those effects of a bolus intravenous metoclopramide infusion over 2 min in the treatment of patients with recent onset vascular type headache. all adults treated with metoclopramide for vascular type headache were eligible for entry into this clinical randomised double blinded trial. this study compared the effects of two different rates of intravenous infusion of metoclopramide over a period of 13 months at a university hospital emergency department. during the trial, side effects and headache scores were recorded at baseline (0 min), and then at 5, 15, 30 and 60 min. repeated measures analysis of variance was used to compare the medication's efficacy and side effects. of these, 62 patients (51.7%) were given 10 mg metoclopramide as a slow intravenous infusion over 15 min (sig group) and 58 patients (48.3%) were given 10 mg metoclopramide intravenous bolus infusion over 2 min (big group). there were no significant differences between the big and sig groups in terms of mean headache scores (p = 0.34) and no adverse reactions in the study period. metoclopramide successfully relieved the headache symptom(s) of patients in both the big and sig groups. slowing the infusion rate of metoclopramide is an effective strategy for the improvement of headache and reducing the incidence of akathisia in patients with vascular type headache.
Is the breast best for children with a family history of atopy? [SEP] 
Does escalation of the apical dose change treatment outcome in beta-radiation of posterior choroidal melanomas with 106Ru plaques? [SEP] does escalation of the apical dose change treatment outcome in beta-radiation of posterior choroidal melanomas with 106ru plaques? to show the results of treating posterior uveal melanomas with 106ru plaque beta-ray radiotherapy and to review and discuss the literature concerning the optimal apical dose prescription (100 vs. 160 gy). forty-eight patients with uveal melanomas (median height 3.85 mm + 1 mm sclera) were treated with ruthenium plaques. the median apical dose was 120 gy, the median scleral dose 546 gy. after 5.8 years of follow-up, the overall 5-year survival rate was 90%, the disease specific 5-year survival rate was 92% (3 patients alive with metastasis). six percent received a second ruthenium application, 10% of the eyes had to be enucleated. central or paracentral tumors showed 50% of the pretherapeutic vision after 4 years, and 80% of the vision was preserved in those with peripheral tumors. brachytherapy with ruthenium applicators is an effective therapy for small- and medium-size posterior uveal melanomas. the treatment outcome does not seem to be capable of improvement by increasing the apical dose. an internationally accepted model for defining the dosage in brachytherapy is needed.
Does septoplasty change the dimensions of compensatory hypertrophy of the middle turbinate? [SEP] does septoplasty change the dimensions of compensatory hypertrophy of the middle turbinate? to measure the dimensions of compensatory hypertrophy of the middle turbinate in patients with nasal septal deviation, before and after septoplasty. the dimensions of bony and mucosal components of the middle turbinate on concave and convex sides of the septum were not significantly changed by septoplasty. the present study findings suggest that compensatory hypertrophy of the middle turbinate is not affected by septoplasty, even after one year. to determine the dimensions of the compensatory hypertrophic inferior turbinate and investigate the radiological changes in the morphology of the conchal bone in patients with septal deviation. the significant bony and mucosal enlargement in the anterior and middle segments of the inferior turbinate supports turbinate reduction at the time of septoplasty and the ct findings should be considered when making a decision about the reduction type. to measure the dimensions, composition, and possible structural and/or histopathological changes of the compensatory hypertrophic inferior turbinate in patients with deviated nasal septum. nineteen patients with deviated nasal septum and compensatory hypertrophy of the inferior turbinate in the contralateral nasal cavity underwent surgery for correction of nasal obstruction. septoplasty and compensatory inferior turbinate hypertrophy: long-term results after randomized turbinoplasty. in patients with septal deviation, compensatory inferior turbinate hypertrophy in the side of the nose opposite the major septal deviation is often found.
Can patient coaching reduce racial/ethnic disparities in cancer pain control? [SEP] can patient coaching reduce racial/ethnic disparities in cancer pain control? minority patients with cancer experience worse control of their pain than do their white counterparts. this disparity may, in part, reflect more miscommunication between minority patients and their physicians. therefore, we examined whether patient coaching could reduce disparities in pain control in a secondary analysis of a randomized controlled trial. sixty-seven english-speaking adult cancer outpatients, including 15 minorities, with moderate pain over the prior 2 weeks were randomly assigned to the experimental (n = 34) or control group (n = 33). experimental patients received a 20-minute individualized education and coaching session to increase knowledge of pain self-management, to redress personal misconceptions about pain treatment, and to rehearse an individually scripted patient-physician dialog about pain control. the control group received standardized information on controlling pain. at enrollment, minority patients had significantly more pain than their white counterparts (6.0 vs 5.0, p = 0.05). at follow-up, minorities in the control group continued to have more pain (6.4 vs 4.7, p = 0.01), whereas in the experimental group, disparities were eliminated (4.0 vs 4.3, p = 0.71). patient coaching offers promise as a means of reducing racial/ethnic disparities in pain control.
Does prior benign prostate biopsy predict outcome for patients treated with radical perineal prostatectomy? [SEP] does prior benign prostate biopsy predict outcome for patients treated with radical perineal prostatectomy? to determine the effect of prior benign prostate biopsies on the surgical and clinical outcomes of patients treated with radical perineal prostatectomy for prostate cancer. a total of 1369 patients with clinically localized prostate cancer underwent radical prostatectomy by a single surgeon between 1991 and 2001. a subset of 203 patients (14.9%), who had undergone at least one prior benign prostate biopsy for a rising prostate-specific antigen and/or abnormal digital rectal examination, constituted our study population. after prostatectomy, patients were evaluated at 6-month intervals for biochemical evidence of recurrence, defined as a prostate-specific antigen level of 0.5 ng/ml or greater. patients with a prior benign biopsy had more favorable pathologic features with more organ-confined (74% versus 64%; p <0.001) and less margin-positive (9.8% versus 18%) disease. only 24 patients (12%) in the study group (versus 20% in control group; p = 0.01) had eventual evidence of biochemical failure. kaplan-meier analyses suggested that patients with prior benign biopsies have improved biochemical disease-free survival, especially for those with more aggressive disease (gleason sum 7 or greater; p <0.01). overall, patients in the study group had lower probability (odds ratio 0.57, p <0.001) of biochemical failure compared with those in the control group. a prior benign prostate biopsy may be independently associated with more favorable surgical and biochemical outcomes after prostatectomy.
Does patient position during liver surgery influence the risk of venous air embolism? [SEP] does patient position during liver surgery influence the risk of venous air embolism? it is generally believed that positioning of the patient in a head-down tilt (trendelenberg position) decreases the likelihood of a venous air embolism during liver resection. the physiological effect of variation in horizontal attitude on central and hepatic venous pressure was measured in 10 patients during liver surgery. hemodynamic indices were recorded with the operating table in the horizontal, 20 degrees head-up and 20 degrees head-down positions. there was no demonstrable pressure gradient between the hepatic and central venous levels in any of the positions. the absolute pressures did, however, vary in a predictable way, being highest in the head-down and lowest during head-up tilt. however, on no occasion was a negative intraluminal pressure recorded. the effect on venous pressures caused by the change in patient positioning alone during liver surgery does not affect the risk of venous air embolism.
Do Indigenous Australians age prematurely? [SEP] study of demographic characteristics, management details and early life outcomes of indigenous infants with chronic neonatal lung disease in north queensland. indigenous infants had significantly lower birth weight (830 g vs. 1000 g, p value 0.039), higher rate of maternal smoking during the pregnancy (57.4% vs. 25%, p value < 0.001), were less likely to be inborn (71.4% vs. 88.2%, p value 0.017) or receive adequate course of antenatal corticosteroids (30.2% vs. 59.2%, p value < 0.001), had increased incidence of grade 2 intraventricular haemorrhage (17.5% vs. 4%, p value 0.01) and were more likely to reside in a very remote locality (17.4% vs. 3.9%, p < 0.001). intergenerational risk of preterm birth in first nations australians: a population-based cohort study from the northern territory, australia. ascertainment of aboriginal and torres strait islander status for assessment of perinatal health outcomes: reported versus derived maternal ethnicity in western australian pregnancy data. all 236 individuals in the cohort identified as aboriginal and torres strait islander australians; their median (interquartile range (iqr)) age was 48 (40-62) years; 120/236 (50.9%) were female. rheumatic heart disease mortality in indigenous and non-indigenous australians between 2010 and 2017. age-specific rhd mortality rates per 100 000 were 0.32, 2.63 and 7.41 among indigenous 0-24, 25-44 and 45-64 year olds, respectively, and the age-standardised mortality ratio (indigenous vs non-indigenous 0-64 year olds) was 14.0. premature mortality in people with rhd aged <65 years has approximately halved in australia since 1997-2005, most notably among younger indigenous people. maternal asthma in australian indigenous women and perinatal outcomes: a whole population-linked study. this prospective cohort study included all indigenous mother and baby dyads for births from 2001 to 2013 in western australia (n = 25 484).
Ultrasound in squamous cell carcinoma of the penis; a useful addition to clinical staging? [SEP] ultrasound in squamous cell carcinoma of the penis; a useful addition to clinical staging? a comparison of ultrasound with histopathology. as part of the staging procedure in squamous cell carcinoma of the penis, we assessed the role of ultrasound examination, in particular its role in assessing the extent and the invasion into the corpora. from 1988 until 1992, all patients referred for primary treatment underwent ultrasound assessment with a 7.5 mhz linear array small parts transducer as part of the clinical workup. all ultrasound images were reviewed by one radiologist, without knowledge of the clinical outcome and were compared with the results obtained at histopathologic examination. in 16 patients the primary tumor and in 1 patient a recurrent cancer after primary therapy were examined. ultrasound examination in the region of the glans was not able to differentiate between invasion of the subepithelial tissue and invasion into the corpus spongiosum, but absence or presence of invasion into the tunica albuginea of the corpus cavernosum was clearly demonstrated. accurate measurement by ultrasound of maximum tumor thickness was seen in seven of sixteen examinations. while ultrasound examination is inexpensive and easily done, it is not accurate enough for staging small penile cancers located at the glans penis. however, for larger tumors ultrasound can be a useful addition to physical examination by delineating reliably the anatomic relations of the tumor to structures such as the tunica albuginea, corpus cavernosum, and urethra.
Do oblique views add value in the diagnosis of spondylolysis in adolescents? [SEP] do oblique views add value in the diagnosis of spondylolysis in adolescents? anteroposterior, lateral, and right and left oblique lumbar spine radiographs are often a standard part of the evaluation of children who are clinically suspected of having spondylolysis. the purpose of the present study was to determine the diagnostic value of oblique views in the diagnosis of spondylolysis. radiographs of fifty adolescents with l5 spondylolysis without spondylolisthesis and fifty controls were retrospectively reviewed. there was no significant difference in sensitivity and specificity between four-view and two-view radiographs in the diagnosis of spondylolysis. imaging modalities for low back pain in children: a review of spondyloysis and undiagnosed mechanical back pain. the goals of this study are to: determine the natural history of low back pain, evaluate the value of radiographic studies in establishing a diagnosis of spondylolysis, and determine the cost and radiation effective doses (eds) associated with those studies with the associated risks radiation exposure. one hundred and ninety-four patients (7.8%) were diagnosed with spondylolysis; 119 (86%) by plain film, 56 (12.5%) by bss, and 17 (1.5%) by cts. for spondylolysis, 2-view plain films are often diagnostic and oblique views did not add significant value. because diagnosis of spondylolysis rarely changes clinical management, physicians should use ionizing radiation studies sparingly in children.
Are many colorectal cancers due to missed adenomas? [SEP] which lesions are at higher risk of developing colorectal carcinomas: superficially elevated serrated lesions or depressed lesions? of those patients, 7.5% had an advanced adenoma or cancer, with a total of 20 cancers, and 34% had findings that warranted more frequent colonoscopy. colonoscopy surveillance following adenoma removal to reduce the risk of colorectal cancer: a retrospective cohort study. patients with a colonoscopy and at least one adenoma at baseline. long-term colorectal cancer incidence after baseline and detection rates of advanced adenomas and colorectal cancer at first surveillance. we examined detection rates of advanced adenomas and colorectal cancer at first surveillance by interval length. removal of adenomas, therefore, helps prevent bowel cancer. those with one or two adenomas that are < 10 mm in size) are thought to be unlikely to develop bowel cancer after adenoma removal and follow-up colonoscopy is not recommended in this group. nearly a quarter of adenomas are missed on routine screening colonoscopy which contributes to between 50% and 60% of interval colorectal cancer. evidence shows that many small polyps are missed on a single colonoscopy.
Does desflurane alter left ventricular function when used to control surgical stimulation during aortic surgery? [SEP] does desflurane alter left ventricular function when used to control surgical stimulation during aortic surgery? although desflurane is commonly used to control surgically induced hypertension, its effects on left ventricular (lv) function have not been investigated in this clinical situation. the purpose of the present study was to evaluate the lv function response to desflurane, when used to control intraoperative hypertension. in 50 patients, scheduled for vascular surgery, anesthesia was induced with sufentanil 0.5 microg/kg, midazolam 0.3 mg/kg and atracurium 0.5 mg/kg. pulmonary artery catheter and tee measurements were obtained after induction (to)(control value), at surgical incision (t1) if it was associated with an increase in systolic arterial pressure (sap) greater than 140 mmhg (hypertension) and after control of hemodynamic parameters by administration of desflurane (return of systolic arterial pressure to within 20% of the control value) (t2) in a fresh gas flow of 31/ min. sixteen patients developed hypertension at surgical incision. sap was controlled by desflurane in all 16 patients. afterload assessed by systemic vascular resistance index (svri), end-systolic wall-stress (esws) and left-ventricular stroke work index (lvswi) increased with incision until the hypertension returned to post-induction values with mean end-tidal concentration of 5.1+/-0.7% desflurane. no change in heart rate, cardiac index, mean pulmonary arterial pressure, stroke volume, end-diastolic and end-systolic cross-sectional areas, fractional area change and left ventricular circumferential fiber shortening was noted when desflurane was added to restore blood pressure. this study demonstrates that in patients at risk for cardiac morbidity undergoing vascular surgery, desflurane is effective to control intraoperative hypertension without fear of major cardiac depressant effect.
Does gestational age misclassification explain the difference in birthweights for Australian aborigines and whites? [SEP] does gestational age misclassification explain the difference in birthweights for australian aborigines and whites? after 34 weeks gestation, summary measures of location for birthweight (e.g means and centiles) increase more slowly for australian aborigines than for whites. this study tests whether the reported pattern is due to differential misclassification of gestational age. simulation was used to measure the potential effect of differential misclassification of gestational age. reported gestational age data were obtained from queensland perinatal data collection (qpdc). estimates of the true distributions of gestational age were obtained by assuming various (plausible) types of misclassification and applying these to the reported distributions. at full term, the parameters of the birthweight distributions were robust to gestational age misclassification. at preterm, the 10th centiles were robust to misclassification. extreme types of misclassification were required to remove the divergence in median birthweights for aborigines and whites. gestational age misclassification is an unlikely explanation for the reported divergence in average birth-weights for aborigines and whites.
Is there any interest to perform ultrasonography in boys with undescended testis? [SEP] 
Is peak concentration needed in therapeutic drug monitoring of vancomycin? [SEP] a pilot study evaluating mid-point vancomycin concentrations to estimate pharmacokinetics and area under the curve: a prospective study. median auc utilization of mid-point vancomycin levels to calculate pharmacokinetic parameters demonstrated promising findings. flowchart for predicting achieving the target area under the concentration-time curve of vancomycin in critically ill japanese patients: a multicenter retrospective study. in therapeutic drug monitoring (tdm) of vancomycin (vcm), the area under the concentration-time curve (auc) is related to the clinical efficacy and toxicity. in therapeutic drug monitoring of vancomycin (vcm), the area under the concentration-time curve (auc) is related to clinical efficacy and toxicity. vancomycin dosing in neutropenic patients. to compare vancomycin pharmacokinetic parameters in patients with and without neutropenia. routinely vancomycin trough and peak plasma concentrations were measured with a fluorescence polarization immunoassay. vancomycin monitoring in children using bayesian estimation. optimal monitoring of vancomycin in children needs evaluation using the exposure target with area under the curve (auc) of the serum concentrations versus time over 24 hours.
Can autologous platelet-rich plasma gel enhance healing after surgical extraction of mandibular third molars? [SEP] can autologous platelet-rich plasma gel enhance healing after surgical extraction of mandibular third molars? this investigation assesses the effect of platelet-rich plasma (prp) gel on postoperative pain, swelling, and trismus as well as healing and bone regeneration potential on mandibular third molar extraction sockets. patients requiring surgical extraction of a single impacted third molar and who fell within the inclusion criteria and indicated willingness to return for recall visits were recruited. the predictor variable was application of prp gel to the socket of the third molar in the test group, whereas the control group had no prp. the outcome variables were pain, swelling, and maximum mouth opening, which were measured using a 10-point visual analog scale, tape, and millimeter caliper, respectively. socket healing was assessed radiographically by allocating scores for lamina dura, overall density, and trabecular pattern. the mean postoperative pain score (visual analog scale) was lower for the prp group at all time points and this was statistically significant (p < .05). similarly, the scores for lamina dura, trabecular pattern, and bone density were better among patients in the prp group. the prp group recorded reduced pain, swelling, and trismus as well as enhanced and faster bone healing compared with those in the control. hence the study showed that topical application of prp gel has a beneficial effect in enhancing socket healing after third molar surgery.
Are sugars-free medicines more erosive than sugars-containing medicines? [SEP] are sugars-free medicines more erosive than sugars-containing medicines? an in vitro study of paediatric medicines with prolonged oral clearance used regularly and long-term by children. the reduced use of sugars-containing (sc) liquid medicines has increased the use of other dose forms, potentially resulting in more widespread dental effects, including tooth wear. the aim of this study was to assess the erosive potential of 97 paediatric medicines in vitro. overall, 55 (57%) formulations had an endogenous ph of < 5.5. the mean (+/- sd) endogenous ph and titratable acidity for 41 sc formulations were 5.26 +/- 1.30 and 0.139 +/- 0.133 mmol, respectively; for 56 sugars-free (sf) formulations, these figures were 5.73 +/- 1.53 and 0.413 +/- 1.50 mmol (p > 0.05). compared with their sc bioequivalents, eight sf medicines showed no significant differences for ph or titratable acidity, while 15 higher-strength medicines showed lower ph (p = 0.035) and greater titratable acidity (p = 0.016) than their lower-strength equivalents. chewable and dispersible tablets (p < 0.001), gastrointestinal medicines (p = 0.002) and antibiotics (p = 0.007) were significant predictors of higher ph. in contrast, effervescent tablets (p < 0.001), and nutrition and blood preparations (p = 0.021) were significant predictors of higher titratable acidity. paediatric sf medicines were not more erosive than sc medicines in vitro; a more significant predictor of their erosive potential was dose form.
