1 in 5 million in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. [SEP] 
32% of liver transplantation programs required patients to discontinue methadone treatment in 2001. [SEP] 
40mg/day dosage of folic acid and 2mg/day dosage of vitamin B12 does not affect chronic kidney disease (CKD) progression. [SEP] 
76-85% of people with severe mental disorder receive no treatment in low and middle income countries. [SEP] [huge barriers to the treatment of mental disorders in low-income countries]. in low-income countries 76-85% of people living with mental disorders do not receive treatment. to reduce the treatment gap many challenges need to be addressed. on a health political level this includes limited financial resources and ineffective health organization. human resources are inadequate, and often drugs are not available. individuals face long distances to psychiatric hospitals, out-of-pocket payment and stigma. there is a great need for research in how to enhance prevention and treatment of mental disorders in low-income countries.
A T helper 2 cell (Th2) environment impedes disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). [SEP] 
A breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen influences treatment outcome. [SEP] a polymorphism in the tc21 promoter associates with an unfavorable tamoxifen treatment outcome in breast cancer. tamoxifen therapy is a standard in the treatment of estrogen receptor (er)-positive breast cancer; however, its efficacy varies widely among patients. in addition to interpatient differences in the tamoxifen-metabolizing capacity, there is growing evidence that crosstalk between er and growth factor signaling contributes to tamoxifen resistance. immunohistochemical analyses of breast tumors revealed a higher tc21 expression in er-negative compared with er-positive tumors. expression in er-positive tumors was higher in carriers of the t allele in an allele dose-dependent manner. quantitative real-time pcr analyses showed that tc21 mrna expression is decreased after transfection of eralpha in er-negative breast cancer cells mda-mb-231, uacc893, and bt-20. in mcf7 er-positive cells, tc21 expression decreased with 17beta-estradiol treatment and increased after treatment with tamoxifen metabolites, 4-oh-tamoxifen, or endoxifen. in patients treated with adjuvant mono tamoxifen, high cytoplasmic tc21 tumor expression or the carriership of the -582t allele conferred increased recurrence rates [n=45: hazard ratio (hr), 3.06; 95% confidence interval (95% ci), 1.16-8.05; n=206: hr, 1.79; 95% ci, 1.08-3.00, respectively]. a combined analysis with the data of the known tamoxifen predictor cyp2d6 showed an improvement of outcome prediction compared with cyp2d6 or tc21 genotype status alone (per mutated gene hr, 2.35; 95% ci, 1.34-4.14). our functional and patient-based results suggest that the tc21 -582c>t polymorphism improves prediction of tamoxifen treatment outcome in breast cancer.
A country's Vaccine Alliance (GAVI) eligibility is not indictivate of accelerated adoption of the Hub vaccine. [SEP] this study investigates the health impacts of transitioning from gavi, the vaccine alliance, on vaccination coverage, infant and under-5 mortality, and disability-adjusted life years (dalys) in low and middle-income countries between 2000 and 2021. as gavi plays a critical role in supporting immunisation programmes for some of the world's most vulnerable populations, understanding the consequences of funding withdrawal is vital for ensuring the sustainability of health gains. our analysis reveals significant short-term and medium-term negative effects of reduced gavi support: the prevalence of children receiving no basic vaccines increased by 1.94 percentage points, infant mortality rose by 7.59 per 1000 live births, and under-5 mortality increased by 17.31 per 1000 live births. financial risk protection from vaccines in 52 gavi-eligible low- and middle-income countries: a modeling study. globally, several gaps in vaccine safety surveillance exist, particularly in low- and middle- income countries (lmics). gavi, the vaccine alliance, funded the acvass study (agreement reference: mel10500921). investment by gavi, the vaccine alliance, aims to improve access to post-exposure vaccines. to understand gaps and opportunities for improving vaccine equality, this qualitative study engaged leaders from governments, medical institutions, and health agencies who were based in mics that did not currently have pcv in their national immunization programs to explore their perspectives on decision-making contexts and constraints related to pcv introduction. three themes that emerged have hindered pcv introduction, including; 1) limited information on disease burden and available vaccine products; 2) competing country health priorities; and 3) financing challenges. while a subset of mics recently became eligible for support from gavi, the vaccine alliance for introducing new vaccines, the marketplace has historically lacked tiered vaccine pricing that mics could sustain for the long term.
A deficiency of folate increases blood levels of homocysteine. [SEP] blood lead concentration was also positively associated with homocysteine levels (1.5%; p < 0.001). homocysteine is a sulfur-containing amino acid with well-established atherogenic properties and is recognized as an independent cardiovascular risk factor. vitamin b12 deficiency does not induce homocysteine increase in transfusion-dependent β-thalassemia major patients receiving folic acid supplementation. patients had lower levels of folate and vitamin b12 and concurrently higher levels of hcys compared to controls. elevated homocysteine levels were detected in 12.3% of women. oxidative stress and nutritional deficiencies, particularly of folate and vitamin b12, have been implicated in its pathogenesis. homocysteine (hcy), a sulfur-containing amino acid, serves as a sensitive biomarker for folate and b12 metabolism and is known to contribute to oxidative stress when elevated. this study aimed to evaluate the serum homocysteine levels in osmf patients and assess its potential as a biochemical marker for disease severity and progression. mean serum homocysteine levels were significantly higher in the osmf group (24.17 µmol/l) compared to controls (10.80 µmol/l) (p < 0.001). elevated serum homocysteine levels are significantly associated with osmf and correlate with disease severity.
A diminished ovarian reserve does not solely indicate infertility in an a priori non-infertile population. [SEP] however, the molecular mechanisms by which peripheral metabolic stress translates into impaired ovarian reserve remain incompletely understood. optimal selection of ovarian stimulation protocol for infertile women with diminished ovarian reserve based on bologna and poseidon criteria: a network meta-analysis. patients with diminished ovarian reserve (dor) present a significant challenge in assisted reproductive technology due to their poor ovarian response and lower pregnancy rates. acupuncture as an adjunctive therapy in a patient with diminished ovarian reserve and recurrent ivf failure: a case report. diminished ovarian reserve (dor), characterized by reduced oocyte quantity and quality, presents clinically with menstrual disorders and hormonal disturbances, severely impacting fertility. dysregulation of this system underlies a spectrum of reproductive disorders, from premature ovarian insufficiency to diminished ovarian reserve and aberrant follicle recruitment. [changes in ovarian function and ovarian reserve after combined treatment for differentiated thyroid cancer]. only patient's age at the time of rait and age at the time of examination on the background of thyroid stimulating hormone suppression were associated with diminished ovarian reserve, using the juden index, the cut-off points of 31 years and 33 years were determined, respectively. only patient's age at the time of rait and age at the time of examination on the background of thyroid stimulating hormone suppression were associated with diminished ovarian reserve. in a randomized clinical setting, melatonin supplementation partially restores ovarian reserve markers and improves reproductive outcomes.
A diminished ovarian reserve is a very strong indicator of infertility, even in an a priori non-infertile population. [SEP] 
A high microerythrocyte count protects against severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. [SEP] 
A mutation in HNF4A leads to an increased risk of developing diabetes by the age of 14 years. [SEP] 
A single nucleotide variant the gene DGKK is strongly associated with increased risk of hypospadias. [SEP] 
A strong bias in the phage genome locations where the spacers were derived has been observed in many CRISPR subtypes that confer the immunity to phage. [SEP] 
ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis for breast cancer primary tumors. [SEP] evaluation of aldh1 expression in ipsilateral breast cancer recurrence. aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 (aldh1) is a cancer stem cell (csc) marker that is easily evaluable. the expression and clinical significance of aldh1 in ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence (ibtr) has yet to be investigated. in the present study, the expression profile of aldh1 and its correlation with prognosis in ibtr tissues was examined. immunohistochemistry was used to examine aldh1 expression patterns in the tissue specimens of primary cancers and ibtrs. aldh1 expression levels were investigated in 182 ibtr tumors, which included cases of invasive carcinoma selected from 271 consecutive patients with ibtr. there was a significant correlation between dfs and aldh1 expression levels in her2-type ibtr tissue specimens (p=0.034). in conclusion, it is possible that aldh1 and ki-67 expression levels may be useful for predicting prognosis in patients with her2-type tumors. in phyllodes tumour of the breast expression of c-kit but not of aldh1a1 is associated with adverse clinico-pathological features. aldh1a1 expression did not have significant correlations with tumour grade and adverse clinico-pathological variables.
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation reduces inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. [SEP] exploring the therapeutic mechanism of kaempferol in acute lung injury: network pharmacology and experimental validation. acute lung injury (ali) is a common and life-threatening respiratory disorder characterised by severe inflammation and persistently high mortality rates. kaempferol (kae), a natural flavonoid compound, has diverse biological activities and holds potential for therapeutic applications. in this study, we employed a network pharmacology approach to predict the mechanism through which kae mitigates ali; this mechanism was subsequently validated experimentally in a mouse model of ali. network pharmacology analysis revealed that the targets of kae in ali are primarily involved in biological processes such as the inflammatory response, oxidative stress regulation, and apoptosis. kegg (kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes) pathway enrichment analysis revealed several signalling pathways, among which the inflammation-related amp-activated protein kinase/nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated b cell (ampk/nf-κb) pathway was predicted to be central to the effects of kae. animal experiments demonstrated that kae intervention significantly improved the lung index, attenuated inflammatory infiltration and fibrosis in lung tissues, and reduced inflammatory and oxidative stress markers in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (balf). furthermore, kae suppressed the phosphorylation of apoptosis-related and nf-κb-associated proteins in lung tissue while activating ampk. in summary, our findings suggest that kae alleviates acute lung injury through multiple pathway interactions, with the ampk/nf-κb signalling axis potentially playing a pivotal role in its protective effects.
APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons results in decreased tau phosphorylation. [SEP] 
ART has no effect on the infectiveness of HIV-positive people. [SEP] with the whoqol-hiv bref tool subgroup, a positive directional effect was also observed (smd: 0.09, 95% ci: -0.042-0.22, p = 0.18; i2 = 0.0%) compared to other art, though not statistically significant. antiretroviral therapy (art) has substantially increased the life expectancy of people living with hiv (plhiv), but its prolonged use has been associated with metabolic alterations that may negatively affect nutritional status. one year after art, hiv+ ms+ showed lower intact and defective vr than the hiv+ ms- control group (28-and six-fold decrease respectively). after three years on art no intact proviruses were detected in hiv+ ms+ . the use of antiretroviral therapy (art) during pregnancy among women living with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) may adversely affect their cardiometabolic health, but its influence on fetal growth remains underexplored. homelessness was associated with lower art use (adjusted odds ratio [aor], 0.51; 95% ci, 0.30-0.85). in states with at- or below-median hopwa funding, homelessness was associated with decreased art use (aor, 0.43; 95% ci, 0.21-0.91). in higher-funded states, there was no association (aor, 0.61; 95% ci, 0.30-1.27). homelessness is associated with reduced current art use among gbmsm living with hiv. this association was not present in states with higher per-person hopwa funding, suggesting that housing investments may mitigate barriers to hiv treatment.
ART substantially reduces infectiveness of HIV-positive people. [SEP] antiretroviral therapy (art) has substantially increased the life expectancy of people living with hiv (plhiv), but its prolonged use has been associated with metabolic alterations that may negatively affect nutritional status. ahd prevalence among those aware of their hiv status and not on antiretroviral therapy (art) increased by 31.7% (20.8% to 27.4%) but decreased by 17.7% (17.5% to 14.4%) among those unaware and not on art and by 53.3% (10.5% to 4.9%) among those aware and on art. these findings indicate substantial reductions in ahd prevalence among those on art between 2015-2017 and 2019-2023. despite the widespread use of the antiretroviral therapy (art) for women of reproductive age, its impact on abortion prevalence remains unclear. findings reveal that cab + rpv-la maintains high levels of viral suppression comparable to daily art while improving patient satisfaction and quality of life. hiv was diagnosed in 70 % (n = 150) and 92 % (n = 138) were initiated on art, 75 % (n = 67) were retained for 6-months, and of those, at 12-months 81 % (n = 21) were virally suppressed. however, substantial reductions in hiv incidence required enhancements to other hiv-ps steps, particularly in partner identification and antiretroviral therapy (art) reengagement for pwdh-ooc. prioritizing art reengagement for pwdh-ooc, alongside optimized hiv-ps, resulted in up to 63% of hiv infections being averted. our study highlights the potential of strategic improvements to hiv-ps for accelerating hiv incidence reduction among gbmsm. synergistic optimization of hiv-ps, along with prioritizing art reengagement for previously diagnosed individuals, will be essential for achieving substantial reductions in hiv incidence.
Activated Cdk5 phosphorylates the ATM protein in response to DNA damage. [SEP] study of atm phosphorylation by cdk5 in neuronal cells. the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase-like kinase atm (ataxia-telangiectasia mutated) plays a central role in coordinating the dna damage responses including cell cycle checkpoint control, dna repair, and apoptosis. we previously showed that cdk5 (cyclin-dependent kinase 5) is activated by dna damage and directly phosphorylates atm at serine 794 in postmitotic neurons. cdk5-atm pathway plays a crucial role in dna damage-induced neuronal injury. phosphorylation of atm by cdk5 mediates dna damage signalling and regulates neuronal death. the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase-like kinase atm (ataxia-telangiectasia mutated) has a central role in coordinating dna damage responses, including cell-cycle checkpoint control, dna repair and apoptosis. here we show that cdk5 (cyclin-dependent kinase 5), activated by dna damage, directly phosphorylates atm at ser 794 in post-mitotic neurons. the cdk5-atm signal regulates phosphorylation and function of the atm targets p53 and h2ax. interruption of the cdk5-atm pathway attenuates dna-damage-induced neuronal cell cycle re-entry and expression of the p53 targets puma and bax, protecting neurons from death. thus, activation of cdk5 by dna damage serves as a critical signal to initiate the atm response and regulate atm-dependent cellular processes.
Activated Cdk5 regulates DNA damage-induced neuronal death. [SEP] cdk5-mediated phosphorylation of p19ink4d avoids dna damage-induced neurodegeneration in mouse hippocampus and prevents loss of cognitive functions. in addition to these physiological roles, cdk5 has been involved in the neuronal death initiated by dna damage. phosphorylation of atm by cdk5 mediates dna damage signalling and regulates neuronal death. here we show that cdk5 (cyclin-dependent kinase 5), activated by dna damage, directly phosphorylates atm at ser 794 in post-mitotic neurons. interruption of the cdk5-atm pathway attenuates dna-damage-induced neuronal cell cycle re-entry and expression of the p53 targets puma and bax, protecting neurons from death. thus, activation of cdk5 by dna damage serves as a critical signal to initiate the atm response and regulate atm-dependent cellular processes. regulation of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 and p53 by erk1/2 pathway in the dna damage-induced neuronal death. here, we delineate the mechanism by which neuronal death evoked by dna damage is controlled. using mouse cortical neurons and sh-sy5y human neuroblastoma cells, we identify a critical role of erk signaling in neuronal death induced by dna damage upon mitomycin c treatment. we suggest subsequent increase of p35 expression and cdk5 activity contribute to p53-dependent neuronal death.
Activation of PPM1D enhances p53 function. [SEP] combined proteasome and ppm1d inhibition synergistically enhanced the antitumor effect. ppm1d suppresses p53-dependent transactivation and cell death by inhibiting the integrated stress response. we demonstrate that dual inhibition of mdm2 and ppm1d induces apoptosis in multiple cancer cell types via amplification of the p53 transcriptional program through the eif2α-atf4 pathway. ppm1d inhibition induces phosphorylation of eif2α, atf4 accumulation, and atf4-dependent enhancement of p53-dependent transactivation upon mdm2 inhibition. these results demonstrate that ppm1d inhibits both the p53 network and the integrated stress response controlled by eif2α-atf4, with clear therapeutic implications. ppm1d knockdown suppresses cell proliferation, promotes cell apoptosis, and activates p38 mapk/p53 signaling pathway in acute myeloid leukemia. the protein phosphatase ppm1d (wip1) was originally identified as a p53 target product. activation of ppm1d through various mechanism promotes the tumorigenic potential of various cancers by suppressing p53 and other dna damage response proteins. new functions of ppm1d have recently been revealed in physiological processes such as cell differentiation. here we report that ppm1d modulates retinoic acid (ra) signalling.
Activation of the Rac1 homolog CED-10 kills viable cells in SRGP-1 mutant Caenorhabditis elegans. [SEP] 
Active Ly49Q induces neutrophil polarization. [SEP] the itim domain-containing nk receptor ly49q impacts pulmonary infection by mediating neutrophil functions. pulmonary infection is a frequent pathology associated with excessive neutrophil infiltration. ly49q, an itim domain-bearing receptor expressed on different leukocytes, has been recently reported to impact neutrophil migration and polarization. utilizing a murine model of
Active Ly49Q prevents neutrophil polarization. [SEP] the ly49q receptor plays a crucial role in neutrophil polarization and migration by regulating raft trafficking. neutrophils rapidly undergo polarization and directional movement to infiltrate the sites of infection and inflammation. here, we show that an inhibitory mhc i receptor, ly49q, was crucial for the swift polarization of and tissue infiltration by neutrophils. during the steady state, ly49q inhibited neutrophil adhesion by preventing focal-complex formation, likely by inhibiting src and pi3 kinases. however, in the presence of inflammatory stimuli, ly49q mediated rapid neutrophil polarization and tissue infiltration in an itim-domain-dependent manner. these opposite functions appeared to be mediated by distinct use of effector phosphatase shp-1 and shp-2. ly49q-dependent polarization and migration were affected by ly49q regulation of membrane raft functions. we propose that ly49q is pivotal in switching neutrophils to their polarized morphology and rapid migration upon inflammation, through its spatiotemporal regulation of membrane rafts and raft-associated signaling molecules.
Active caspase-11 participate in regulating phagosome-lysosome fusion. [SEP] 
Active caspase-11 protein promotes pyroptosis. [SEP] pyroptosis a lytic form of programmed cell death, is a crucial host defense mechanism against bacterial pathogens. while caspase-mediated pathways are central to pyroptosis, the involvement of apoptotic regulators such as bak, bax, and mcl-1 in bacterial infection-induced pyroptosis remains unclear. in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (mefs), both pathogens strongly induced gbp2 expression and activated caspase‑11, whereas activation of caspase‑1 occurred only in macrophages, indicating engagement of both non-canonical and canonical pyroptosis pathways. cells were treated with nah, ov-gasdermin d (gsdmd), ov-caspase 11, h nah inhibited h/r-induced pyroptosis of h9c2 cells as evidenced by decreased caspase 11/gsdmd activation, decreased il-18/il-1β/ldh release, and increased atp yields. this study elucidates a novel mechanism whereby the p2rx7-panx1 axis synergistically regulates lps-induced alveolar macrophage pyroptosis through caspase-11-dependent pathways. pyroptosis, a form of programmed cell death mediated by the gasdermin family, has emerged as a promising strategy for inducing anti-tumor immunity. western blot analysis revealed that anisomycin triggered pyroptosis via the caspase-11/gsdmd pathway. il-27 aggravates acute hepatic injury by promoting macrophage m1 polarization to induce caspase-11 mediated pyroptosis in vitro and in vivo. furthermore, il-27 promoted increased rage and caspase-11 protein expression, aggravating macrophage pyroptosis. here, il-27 aggravates ahi by promoting macrophage m1 polarization to induce caspase-11-mediated pyroptosis in vitro and in vivo, which may be linked to the ampk/sirt1 signaling pathway.
Adult tissue-resident macrophages are seeded before birth. [SEP] alveolar macrophages rely on gm-csf from alveolar epithelial type 2 cells before and after birth. programs defining tissue-resident macrophage identity depend on local environmental cues. this at2-am relationship begins during embryogenesis, where nascent at2s timely induce gm-csf expression to support the proliferation and differentiation of fetal monocytes contemporaneously seeding the tissue, and persists into adulthood, when epithelial gm-csf remains restricted to at2s. c-myb(+) erythro-myeloid progenitor-derived fetal monocytes give rise to adult tissue-resident macrophages. although classified as hematopoietic cells, tissue-resident macrophages (mfs) arise from embryonic precursors that seed the tissues prior to birth to generate a self-renewing population, which is maintained independently of adult hematopoiesis. here we reveal the identity of these embryonic precursors using an in utero mf-depletion strategy and fate-mapping of yolk sac (ys) and fetal liver (fl) hematopoiesis. we show that ys mfs are the main precursors of microglia, while most other mfs derive from fetal monocytes (mos). both ys mfs and fetal mos arise from erythro-myeloid progenitors (emps) generated in the ys. in the ys, emps gave rise to mfs without monocytic intermediates, while emp seeding the fl upon the establishment of blood circulation acquired c-myb expression and gave rise to fetal mos that then seeded embryonic tissues and differentiated into mfs. thus, adult tissue-resident mfs established from hematopoietic stem cell-independent embryonic precursors arise from two distinct developmental programs.
Adult tissue-resident macrophages are seeded before birth. [SEP] alveolar macrophages rely on gm-csf from alveolar epithelial type 2 cells before and after birth. programs defining tissue-resident macrophage identity depend on local environmental cues. this at2-am relationship begins during embryogenesis, where nascent at2s timely induce gm-csf expression to support the proliferation and differentiation of fetal monocytes contemporaneously seeding the tissue, and persists into adulthood, when epithelial gm-csf remains restricted to at2s. c-myb(+) erythro-myeloid progenitor-derived fetal monocytes give rise to adult tissue-resident macrophages. although classified as hematopoietic cells, tissue-resident macrophages (mfs) arise from embryonic precursors that seed the tissues prior to birth to generate a self-renewing population, which is maintained independently of adult hematopoiesis. here we reveal the identity of these embryonic precursors using an in utero mf-depletion strategy and fate-mapping of yolk sac (ys) and fetal liver (fl) hematopoiesis. we show that ys mfs are the main precursors of microglia, while most other mfs derive from fetal monocytes (mos). both ys mfs and fetal mos arise from erythro-myeloid progenitors (emps) generated in the ys. in the ys, emps gave rise to mfs without monocytic intermediates, while emp seeding the fl upon the establishment of blood circulation acquired c-myb expression and gave rise to fetal mos that then seeded embryonic tissues and differentiated into mfs. thus, adult tissue-resident mfs established from hematopoietic stem cell-independent embryonic precursors arise from two distinct developmental programs.
Adult tissue-resident macrophages possess a self-renewing capacity. [SEP] 
Aggravated inflammation is dependent on NLRP3 inflammasome activation. [SEP] gbp5 aggravates acute lung injury via nlrp3 inflammasome activation while inducing a hif-1α-cd73-adenosine feedback loop. gbp5 exacerbates ali through nlrp3 inflammasome activation while simultaneously driving a compensatory hif-1α-cd73-adenosine-camp-creb feedback loop that restrains excessive inflammation. in addition, colocalization of both inflammasome components nlrp3 and asc, were also found as well as the increased il-1β levels. western blot (wb) was used to measure the expression of inflammasome-related proteins, such as nlr family, pyrin domain containing 3 (nlrp3), asc, cleaved-caspase1, and nuclear receptor subfamily 1, group d, member 1 (nr1d1), bcl2/adenovirus e1b 19 kda interacting protein 3 ‌(bnip3) in lung or macrophages. inhibiting bnip3 exacerbated rsv-induced lung injury by enhancing nlrp3 inflammasome activity and impairing mitophagy. histone demethylase kdm4b epigenetically controls nlrp3 expression to enhance inflammatory responses. nlrp3 inflammasome, the archetypical molecular driver of inflammation, plays crucial roles in host defense and maintaining cellular homeostasis. here, we show that histone demethylase lysine-specific demethylase 4b (kdm4b) mediates h3k9me3 demethylation at the nlrp3 promoter to induce nlrp3 expression, thereby selectively enhancing nlrp3 inflammasome activation without affecting nf-κb activation. concordantly, both kdm4b deficiency and the selective kdm4 inhibitor ml324 inhibit nlrp3 inflammasome activation and ameliorate nlrp3-dependent inflammatory diseases in vivo. our findings reveal the role of h3k9me3 demethylation in initiating inflammation, identify kdm4b as an epigenetic accelerator of nlrp3, and propose that modulating h3k9me3 could represent a targeted anti-inflammatory strategy.
Alirocumab treatment reduces apo(a) fractional clearance rate. [SEP] 
Allogeneic mechanical circulatory support is not as effective as autologous mechanical circulatory support for treating acute myocardial infarction. [SEP] animals that achieved rosc (n = 19) were blindly randomized to intraventricular saline (n = 9) or allogeneic bone marrow-derived mscs (55 ± 2 × 10 compared with saline-treated controls, msc-treated animals exhibited improved post-rosc lv function and lower ctni levels, indicative of reduced myocardial injury. early post-rosc delivery of allogeneic mscs attenuates lv dysfunction and reduces the need for pharmacologic hemodynamic support after ca in swine, suggesting that systemic msc administration may be an effective strategy to improve patient outcomes after resuscitation from ca. this is a two-center, nonblinded, randomized clinical trial evaluating point-of-care washed versus standard issue allogeneic erythrocyte transfusions administered during or on the day of cardiac surgery. among patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery with high risk of erythrocyte transfusion, point-of-care washing of allogeneic erythrocyte transfusions did not mitigate changes in intermediate markers of lung injury or cardiopulmonary physiologic responses to erythrocyte transfusion and was not associated with improved clinical outcomes. consensus statement: hemostasis trial outcomes in cardiac surgery and mechanical support. clinical trials of hemostatic agents in both cardiac surgery and mechanical circulatory support, such as extracorporeal membrane oxygenation and ventricular assist devices, are examples of studies that lack implementation of universally accepted outcomes. for mechanical circulatory support outside the perioperative period the recommended primary outcome for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation is a 5-point ordinal score of thrombosis and bleeding severity adapted from the common terminology criteria for adverse events version 5.0. the purpose of this review is to discuss recent advances in the field of cell therapy in patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (hfref) of ischemic (icmp) and nonischemic (dcmp) etiology, heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (hfpef), and in advanced heart failure patients undergoing mechanical circulatory support (lvad). in hfref patients (icmp and dcmp cohorts), autologous and/or allogeneic cell therapy was shown to improve myocardial performance, patients' functional capacity, and neurohumoral activation. recently, cell therapy was explored in the sickest population of advanced heart failure patients undergoing lvad support also showing a potential benefit in promoting myocardial reverse remodeling and recovery.
Alteration of origin firing causes changes in termination zones of Okazaki fragments. [SEP] 
Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring is inaccurate at diagnosing hypertension. [SEP] errors and negative outcomes in home blood pressure monitoring by hypertensive individuals: a scoping review. home blood pressure monitoring (hbpm) is a valuable tool in the diagnosis and management of hypertension; however, patients often perform inaccurate measurements because of inadequate technique, which may lead to adverse health outcomes. the most prevalent errors reported were failure to follow the recommended number or schedule for daily blood pressure (bp) measurements (57.14%), failure to support the back during measurement (35.71%), inadequate interval between meals or coffee consumption and bp measurement (35.71%), talking during measurement (35.71%) and failure to record the measured bp values (35.71%). this review highlights that many patients with hypertension perform hbpm inaccurately, committing errors that can be mitigated with professional guidance during consultations. many challenges exist in assessing blood pressure control, including in-clinic measurement biases and physiologic variability, limiting the ability to appropriately guide therapeutic changes. reliance on single in-clinic bp measurements for hypertension management can be inaccurate due to significant variability over time. however, health system barriers prevent doctors from following measurement protocols, leading to inaccurate bp assessments. we propose that estimation of the mortality risk relying on a single office blood pressure measurement, as is the case with contemporary risk scores, may give rise to inaccurate results and the incorporation of the assessment of hypotension burden with 24-h abpm into the risk assessment tools might improve risk stratification. home blood pressure monitoring (hbpm) is an increasingly important tool in managing hypertension (htn); however, its efficacy depends on its accuracy. this study aimed to explore the differences between blood pressure (bp) measurements conducted by patients and medical professionals and the patient demographic factors correlating with inaccurate self-measured bp levels.
Amitriptyline is an effective treatment for chronic tension-type headaches. [SEP] 
An M2-like phenotype in brown adipose tissue macrophages is quickly induced by cold exposure. [SEP] 
Androgenetic haploid mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) can be derived and genetically manipulated in vitro. [SEP] 
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with decreased risk for functional renal insufficiency. [SEP] renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system inhibitors (raasi) and its combination therapy are essential supportive treatments for patients with chronic kidney disease (ckd) and heart failure (hf). angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor (acei) use increased hyperkalemia risk (or=1.25, 95% ci 1.02-1.53). unexpectedly, the association between hyperkalemia and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system inhibitor use was statistically significant only in the normal renal function group (or=1.63, 95% ci 1.13-2.34). the correlation of serum adropin with cardiovascular risk factors in the experimental rat model of chronic kidney disease and its implication in the ameliorative effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (acei) treatment was reported to have a protective effect on both renal and cardiovascular function. this study investigated whether adropin is associated with renal and cardiovascular outcomes after using acei treatment in ckd rats. [effects of perioperative use of renin-angiotensin system inhibitor on renal function and clinical outcomes in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting surgery]. to analyze the effects of preoperative renin-angiotensin system inhibitor (rasi) use on postoperative renal function and short-term and long-term prognosis in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg). effects of renin-angiotensin inhibitors on renal function and the clinical course in patients with decompensated cirrhosis. need for hemodialysis was also significantly lower in patients with ras-inhibitors (p = 0.03) and ltx-free survival was comparable between both groups (p = 0.52).
Anthrax spores are very difficult to dispose once they are dispersed. [SEP] 
Anthrax spores remain deadly until affected areas are decontaminated. [SEP] 
Antidepressants increase the severity of migraines. [SEP] migraine is a common neurological disorder in children, significantly impacting quality of life and academic performance. comparison of the efficacy of propranolol versus amitriptyline as monotherapy for prophylaxis of migraine. chronic migraine. we report a case of a 40-year-old male who had the clinical signs of chronic migraine. migraine and cardiovascular disease: what cardiologists should know. migraine is a chronic neurovascular disease with a complex, not fully understood pathophysiology with multiple causes. people with migraine suffer from recurrent moderate to severe headache attacks varying from 4 to 72 h. the prevalence of migraine is two to three times higher in women compared with men. medication for the treatment of migraine can be preventative medication, such as beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors/angiotensin receptor blockers, antiepileptics, antidepressants, some of the long-acting calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonists, or monoclonal antibodies against calcitonin gene-related peptide or its receptor, or acute medication, such as triptans and calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonists. however, these medications might raise concerns when migraine patients also have cvd due to possible (coronary) side effects. this state-of-the-art review will outline the basic pathophysiology of migraine and the associations between migraine and cvd, discuss current therapies, and propose future directions for research.
Antidepressants reduce the severity of migraines. [SEP] prophylactic treatment plays a crucial role in reducing the frequency, severity, and duration of migraine attacks. the severity of migraine attacks is lower in patients receiving polytherapy regimens; however, using antidepressants as prophylactic treatment of migraine is positively associated with treatment adherence. differences in pharmacological migraine treatment across different levels of clinical headache care - a cross-sectional study. md patients with both thyroid disorder and migraine used antidepressants more often than other groups. efficacy of nortriptyline and migraine lifestyle modifications in vestibular migraine management. a comparative study on prophylactic efficacy of cinnarizine and amitriptyline in childhood migraine: a randomized double-blind clinical trial. comparison of the efficacy of propranolol versus amitriptyline as monotherapy for prophylaxis of migraine. the average number of migraine attacks reduced in the amitriptyline and propranolol groups as the treatment duration increased. prophylactic therapies have a major impact on migraine frequency and associated symptoms. anti-cgrp mabs resulted in significant improvement in migraine severity and midas scores.
Antimicrobial agents are less effective due to the pressure of antimicrobial usage. [SEP] 
Antimicrobial agents are more effective due to the pressure of antimicrobial usage. [SEP] 
Antiretroviral therapy increases rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. [SEP] 
Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations leads to improved vision. [SEP] glaucoma - risk factors and current challenges in the diagnosis of a leading cause of visual impairment. worldwide, glaucoma affects about 3% of the population over the age of 50 years and is a leading cause of irreversible visual impairment among older people. because glaucoma is asymptomatic in its early stages and can be challenging to diagnose clinically, it often remains undiagnosed until substantial vision loss has occurred. efficient methods of glaucoma screening are therefore warranted for early detection of disease. in the meantime, regularly screening family members of people with existing glaucoma is an efficient way of detecting early glaucoma. effectiveness of screening older people for impaired vision in community setting: systematic review of evidence from randomised controlled trials. to assess whether population screening for impaired vision among older people in the community leads to improvements in vision. systematic review of randomised controlled trials of population screening in the community that included any assessment of vision or visual function with at least 6 months' follow up. visual impairment in this age group can usually be reduced with treatment. further work is needed to clarify what interventions are appropriate for older people with unreported impairment of vision.
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has better graft function than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] 
Autophagy deficiency in the liver increases vulnerability to insulin resistance. [SEP] 
B cells go though plasmablast differentiation and antibody production by continuous expression of EBI2. [SEP] 
BCL-2 activation antagonizes the apoptotic effects of c-Myc. [SEP] overexpression of c-myc antagonized the suppressive effects of grt, while knockdown of c-myc increased the sensitivity of pca cells to grt treatment. in addition, stattic-induced mitochondrial-dependent apoptosis by elevating cleaved caspase-3, and bax, cytochrome c levels, while reducing expression of bcl-2, which may be regulated by reduced survivin expression. to explore the potential protective effect of sp and its mechanism, we investigated the relationships among sp, apoptosis induced by sd, and wnt signaling in bmscs. antagonizing bcl-2 family members sensitizes neuroblastoma and ewing's sarcoma to an inhibitor of glutamine metabolism. we further showed that induction of apoptosis by don in myc-overexpressing cancers is via the pro-apoptotic factor bax. since the cellular mechanisms mediating this effect are not well defined, we investigated the activity of la, also in combination with dht or with cyproterone acetate (ca), on the expression of genes (bcl-2, bax, c-myc) which may contribute to the proliferative behaviour of lncap cells. nsaid-induced apoptosis in rous sarcoma virus-transformed chicken embryo fibroblasts is dependent on v-src and c-myc and is inhibited by bcl-2. however, overexpression of human bcl-2 inhibited diclofenac-mediated apoptosis by 90%, demonstrating directly that bcl-2 expression can regulate nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug induction of cell death. the proto-oncogene c-myc is known to cause apoptosis in chicken embryo fibroblasts when artificially overexpressed in cells deprived of trophic factors. these findings suggest that nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug-induced apoptosis proceeds through a src/myc dependent pathway which is negatively regulated by bcl-2.
BCL-2 promotes the apoptotic effects of c-Myc. [SEP] multi-omics analysis reveals that knockdown of impa2 induces apoptosis in cervical cancer cells through ros/myc/cdk1 signaling. meanwhile, the ros scavenger nac rescues myc downregulation and its downstream effects to prevent apoptosis. this study demonstrates that impa2 regulates cc cell cycle and apoptosis via the myc/cdk1 pathway, with impa2 knockdown downregulating myc/cdk1 in a ros-dependent manner to induce g2/m arrest and apoptosis. combined treatment with imatinib and zme upregulated the expression of bax (5-fold in k562, 3-fold in u266) and p-ten (2-fold in k562, 2.8-fold in u266) genes and downregulated the expression of bcl-2 (0.3-fold in k562, 0.3-fold in u266), bcr-abl (0.5-fold in k562), and c-myc (0.4-fold in k562, 0.2-fold in u266) genes (p < 0.05). the bcl-2 protein family: from discovery to drug development. the landmark discovery of the bcl-2 gene and then its function marked the identification of inhibition of apoptotic cell death as a crucial novel mechanism driving cancer development and launched the quest to discover the molecular control of apoptosis. of note, bcl-2 acted in a distinct manner as compared to then already known oncogenic proteins like abl and c-myc. bcl-2 did not promote cell proliferation but inhibited cell death, as originally shown in growth factor dependent haematopoietic progenitor cell lines (e.g., fdc-p1) and in eμ-myc/eμ-bcl-2 double transgenic mice. due to the imbalance in the bax/bcl-2 ratio, apoptosis is promoted, and the caspase cascade and cyt-c are activated. this led us to conclude that gn treatment inhibited bcl-2, cyclin-d1, c-myc, and survivin activity through the tnf-α/nf-κb and pi3k/jnk/p38 signaling pathways, further preventing the proliferation and stimulation of apoptosis, which contributes to growth arrest in melanoma cells.
BLM gene encodes RecQ-class DNA helicase. [SEP] the blm dna helicase protein is overexpressed in breast cancer tissues and is negatively correlated with patient survival outcomes. we find that in bloom helicase (blm) proficient cells, the homologous recombination (hr) pathway in rdna resembles that in nuclear chromatin; it is initiated by resection, replication protein a (rpa) loading and brca2-dependent rad51 filament formation. bloom syndrome (bs) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by a loss-of-function mutation in the blm gene encoding an recq helicase involved in dna repair and maintenance of chromosomal stability. the blm gene encodes a recq helicase critical for genome maintenance, stability, and repair, and a deficiency in functional blm protein leads to genomic instability and high predisposition to various types of cancers, particularly hematological and gastrointestinal malignancies. here, we report a case of bs with a previously unreported variant in the blm gene. genetic screening revealed compound heterozygous variants in the blm gene, with a recurrent variant previously reported in bs in one allele and a previously unreported variant in the other allele. it is mainly caused by biallelic loss-of-function mutations in the blm gene, which encodes the blm helicase, acting in dna replication and repair processes. bs is caused by mutations of both copies of the blm gene, encoding the recq blm helicase. this review discusses the different aspects of bs and the different cellular functions of blm in genome surveillance and maintenance through its major roles during dna replication, repair, and transcription. blm's activities are essential for the stabilization of centromeric, telomeric and ribosomal dna sequences, and the regulation of innate immunity.
BRCA 1 mutation carriers' risk of breast and ovarian cancer depends on where the mutation is located. [SEP] 
Bacterial meningitis can be diagnosed on the basis of positive cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cultures. [SEP] all patients had positive cerebrospinal fluid (csf) cultures. the secondary outcome was the prevalence of bacterial meningitis, defined by csf testing or suggestive history at clinical follow-up. the prevalence of bacterial meningitis was 0.25% (95% ci, 0.14%-0.45%) among 4737 infants with meningitis status ascertained by csf testing or clinical follow-up and 0.28% (95% ci, 0.21%-0.36%) among 20 637 infants with positive and negative urinalysis results (or, 0.89; 95% ci, 0.48-1.68). the purpose of present study was to identify the pathogen in pyogenic meningitis and to determine its antibiotic susceptibility pattern materials and methods: a total of 247 cases were included in the diagnosis of meningitis on the basis of clinical findings and positive cerebrospinal fluid (csf). cerebrospinal fluid (csf) specimens were prospectively analyzed, independently of cell count; results were retrospectively analyzed and positive results compared to clinical and microbiological data. cerebrospinal fluid analysis revealed mild infection with negative gram staining and culture. childhood acute bacterial meningitis: clinical spectrum, bacteriological profile and outcome. to determine the disease pattern, etiological agents and outcome of childhood acute bacterial meningitis. atotal of 199 children between the ages of 1 month and 5 years, admitted with the diagnosis of meningitis on the basis of clinical findings and positive cerebrospinal fluid (csf), were included. blood and cerebrospinal fluid cultures were positive for n. meningitidis.
Bariatric surgery increases rates of colorectal cancer. [SEP] sages colorectal and metabolic bariatric surgery committee joint task force call to action for synchronized severe obesity and colorectal cancer management. metabolic bariatric procedures, such as sleeve gastrectomy, achieve rapid and clinically meaningful weight reduction, often resulting in improved operative exposure and technical conditions for subsequent resection. obesity is associated with increased risk of cancer, including endometrial, esophageal, gastric, kidney, colorectal, liver, gallbladder, pancreas, prostate, postmenopausal breast, ovarian, and thyroid cancers. in observational studies, patients who lost more than 10% of body weight through bariatric procedures (n = 30 318) or with glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists (n = 1 651 452) had modest reductions in obesity-associated cancer incidence (absolute change, -0.02% to -0.5%). overweight and obesity are associated with higher rates of cancer and account for 10% of new cancer diagnoses annually in the us. evidence from conventional and mendelian randomisation epidemiological studies support the conclusion that obesity is causally associated with increased risk of several common cancer types. some evidence, notably from quasi-experimental bariatric surgery studies, support the concept that sustained long-term weight loss in individuals is associated with reduction of cancer incidence, particularly in women. a review article: the relationship between obesity and colorectal cancer. this article aims to review the recent literature assessing the relationship between obesity and colorectal carcinogenesis, the effect of obesity on the treatment of colorectal cancer (crc), tools available to help augment the increased risk, and outcomes for patients who are affected by both obesity and colorectal cancer. bariatric and metabolic surgery (bms) may adversely affect noninvasive stool tests for colorectal cancer (crc) screening through several mechanisms.
Bariatric surgery increases rates of postmenopausal breast cancer. [SEP] in observational studies, patients who lost more than 10% of body weight through bariatric procedures (n = 30 318) or with glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists (n = 1 651 452) had modest reductions in obesity-associated cancer incidence (absolute change, -0.02% to -0.5%). obesity and breast cancer rates are increasing globally, with obesity prevalence more than doubling since 1990. understanding the relationship between obesity, breast cancer, and weight loss is crucial for improving patient outcomes. studies included epidemiological data on obesity and breast cancer incidence, systematic reviews, meta-analyses, and clinical trials on weight management interventions (behavioral modification, bariatric surgery, and pharmacological treatments) for breast cancer patients. preclinical studies examining the biological mechanisms linking obesity and breast cancer progression were also reviewed. epidemiological studies consistently show that overweight and obese post-menopausal women have an increased risk of developing breast cancer. bariatric surgery reduces the risk of developing breast cancer but lacks data on its impact on tumor characteristics and recurrence. addressing obesity in breast cancer patients is critical for improving prognosis and quality of life. there is a clear association between obesity and endometrial cancer, breast cancer in postmenopausal women, pancreatic, esophageal and colon cancer. pre-operative gynecologic evaluation of bariatric surgery patients: improving cancer detection in a high-risk population.
Bariatric surgery leads to negative outcomes in mental health. [SEP] patients awaiting bariatric surgery have a wide range of mental and physical health comorbidities, with evidence of positive associations between higher depression and anxiety levels with abnormal eating behaviours. the effects of bariatric surgery on vitamin b status and mental health. bariatric surgery leads to changes in mental health, quality of life and social functioning, yet these outcomes differ among individuals. in this study, we explore patients' psychosocial experiences following bariatric surgery and elucidate the individual-level factors that may drive variation in psychosocial outcomes. weight loss following bariatric surgery leads to complex changes in self-perception and inter-personal relationships, which may be proximal mediators of commonly assessed mental health outcomes such as depression. mental illness has a negative impact on weight loss in bariatric patients: a 4-year follow-up. mental health disorders are highly prevalent among bariatric surgery patients. the aim was to investigate the impact of preoperative mental illness on the course of long-term weight changes after bariatric surgery. preoperative mental illness leads to lower long-term weight loss and an increased risk of weight regain after bariatric surgery. according to the current state of research, mental health improves due to bariatric surgery.
Bariatric surgery leads to positive outcomes in mental health. [SEP] patients awaiting bariatric surgery have a wide range of mental and physical health comorbidities, with evidence of positive associations between higher depression and anxiety levels with abnormal eating behaviours. predictors of weight loss in participants with obesity following bariatric surgery - a prospective longitudinal fmri study. understanding the psychosocial impact of weight loss following bariatric surgery: a qualitative study. bariatric surgery leads to changes in mental health, quality of life and social functioning, yet these outcomes differ among individuals. in this study, we explore patients' psychosocial experiences following bariatric surgery and elucidate the individual-level factors that may drive variation in psychosocial outcomes. weight loss following bariatric surgery leads to complex changes in self-perception and inter-personal relationships, which may be proximal mediators of commonly assessed mental health outcomes such as depression. emotion regulation and mental well-being before and six months after bariatric surgery. according to the current state of research, mental health improves due to bariatric surgery. as emotion regulation (er) appears to be a key variable in the successful outcome of weight loss treatments, the present study aimed at investigating er-strategies applied by bariatric surgery candidates pre- and post-surgery and examining interactions between er, depressive symptoms, health-related quality of life (hrqol), and post-surgical weight loss. change in mental symptoms in extreme obesity patients after gastric banding, part ii: six-year follow up.
Bariatric surgery reduces colorectal cancer. [SEP] metabolic and bariatric surgery vs. dietary counseling in adults with severe obesity: risk of de novo malignancy in a propensity-matched multicentered real-world analysis. while metabolic and bariatric surgery (mbs) is known to reduce weight and improve metabolic dysfunction, its impact on incident malignancy compared with structured non-surgical management remains incompletely defined. in observational studies, patients who lost more than 10% of body weight through bariatric procedures (n = 30 318) or with glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists (n = 1 651 452) had modest reductions in obesity-associated cancer incidence (absolute change, -0.02% to -0.5%). obesity, bariatric surgery, and cancer risk: nutritional perspectives and long-term clinical implications. bariatric surgery is the most effective clinical intervention for achieving substantial and sustained weight loss in individuals with severe obesity, and growing evidence indicates that it is associated with a reduction in overall cancer risk and cancer-related mortality, particularly for malignancies strongly linked to obesity. beyond metabolic improvements, bariatric surgery produces long-term changes in nutritional physiology that may also influence oncologic outcomes. in addition, bariatric surgery induces sustained remodeling of the gut microbiome and bile acid metabolism, which may further modulate tumorigenic signaling. overall, the oncological impact of bariatric surgery reflects a balance between metabolic improvement and long-term nutritional management, underscoring the need for structured follow-up and targeted nutritional strategies to optimize cancer risk reduction. some evidence, notably from quasi-experimental bariatric surgery studies, support the concept that sustained long-term weight loss in individuals is associated with reduction of cancer incidence, particularly in women. metabolic syndrome and colorectal cancer: mechanisms, epidemiological evidence, and clinical implications.
Bariatric surgery reduces postmenopausal breast cancer. [SEP] studies included epidemiological data on obesity and breast cancer incidence, systematic reviews, meta-analyses, and clinical trials on weight management interventions (behavioral modification, bariatric surgery, and pharmacological treatments) for breast cancer patients. epidemiological studies consistently show that overweight and obese post-menopausal women have an increased risk of developing breast cancer. bariatric surgery reduces the risk of developing breast cancer but lacks data on its impact on tumor characteristics and recurrence. furthermore, weight loss even late in life may confer benefits for cancers of breast, endometrium, colorectum, and liver among patients with obesity, as mostly demonstrated by studies of bariatric surgery. additionally, bariatric surgery has provided evidence of lowering overall cancer risk in patients with morbid obesity. interestingly, bariatric surgery may lower overall cancer risk in women within the first 5 years after surgery due to the reduced risk of breast and endometrial cancer, and non-hodgkin lymphoma. bariatric surgery is associated with reduced risk of breast cancer in both premenopausal and postmenopausal women. this retrospective cohort study examined whether bariatric surgery is associated with reduced risk of breast cancer among pre- and postmenopausal women. in multivariable adjusted models, bariatric surgery was associated with a reduced risk of both premenopausal (hr = 0.72, 95% ci, 0.54-0.94) and postmenopausal (hr = 0.55, 95% ci, 0.42-0.72) breast cancer. bariatric surgery was associated with a reduced risk of breast cancer among severely obese women.
Basophils promote disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). [SEP] basophilic exosomes promote sle development via exacerbating b cell activation through the lncrna enst00000537616/mir-330-5p/kras axis. basophils have been shown to promote b cell activation in sle; however, the molecular mechanisms involved remain nebulous. to elucidate the role of basophilic exosomes in b-cell activation and explore the associated molecular mechanisms in sle. furthermore, we used a basophil-depleted lupus mouse model to examine the impact of basophilic exosomes on disease progression and conducted transcriptomic analysis of basophilic exosomes to identify key molecular regulators. human-activated basophil-derived exosomes significantly enhanced the activation of b cells from sle patients in vitro. in the basophil-depleted lupus mouse model, activated basophilic exosomes induced excessive splenic immune cell proliferation and exacerbated renal dysfunction. basophil activation-dependent autoantibody and interleukin-17 production exacerbate systemic lupus erythematosus. this study aimed to investigate the role of basophil activation in the development of sle based on studies in patients with sle and spontaneous lupus-prone mrl- the phenotypes of peripheral basophils and the production of autoantibody and interleukin (il)-17 in patients with sle were determined by flow cytometry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and also their correlations were investigated by statistical analysis. thereafter, the effect of basophils on autoantibody production by b cells and th17 differentiation in sle were evaluated  the decreased numbers and an increased activation of peripheral basophils were found to be correlated with increased autoantibody production and disease activity in patients with sle. correspondingly,  these finding suggest that basophil activation-dependent autoantibody and il-17 production may constitute a critical pathogenic mechanism in sle.
Binding of p53 to enhancer regions (p53BERs) regulates the activity of p53 transcription and cell cycle arrest through the production of p53-dependent eRNAs. [SEP] ernas are required for p53-dependent enhancer activity and gene transcription. binding within or nearby target genes involved in cell proliferation and survival enables the p53 tumor suppressor gene to regulate their transcription and cell-cycle progression. using genome-wide chromatin-binding profiles, we describe binding of p53 also to regions located distantly from any known p53 target gene. interestingly, many of these regions possess conserved p53-binding sites and all known hallmarks of enhancer regions. we demonstrate that these p53-bound enhancer regions (p53bers) indeed contain enhancer activity and interact intrachromosomally with multiple neighboring genes to convey long-distance p53-dependent transcription regulation. furthermore, p53bers produce, in a p53-dependent manner, enhancer rnas (ernas) that are required for efficient transcriptional enhancement of interacting target genes and induction of a p53-dependent cell-cycle arrest. thus, our results ascribe transcription enhancement activity to p53 with the capacity to regulate multiple genes from a single genomic binding site. moreover, erna production from p53bers is required for efficient p53 transcription enhancement.
Birth-weight is negatively associated with breast cancer. [SEP] breast cancer may negatively affect later pregnancy and childbirth. high bmi and maternal smoking are important variables when studying breastfeeding and this study indicates their negative association with the duration of breastfeeding. exploring the association between birthweight and breast cancer using summary statistics from a perspective of genetic correlation, mediation, and causality. previous studies demonstrated a positive relationship between birthweight and breast cancer; however, inconsistent, sometimes even controversial, observations also emerged, and the nature of such relationship remains unknown. using summary statistics of birthweight and breast cancer, we assessed the fetal/maternal-specific genetic correlation between them via ldsc and prioritized fetal/maternal-specific pleiotropic genes through maiup. with summary statistics we identified a positive genetic correlation between fetal-specific birthweight and breast cancer (r this study reveals that shared genetic foundation and causal mediation commonly drive the connection between the two traits, and that fetal/maternal-specific birthweight plays substantially distinct roles in such relationship. obesity was associated with lower rates of premenopausal breast cancer (hr = 0.77, 95% ci 0.68-0.87) when adjusted for parity, use of hormonal contraception, family history of ovarian and/or breast cancer, any other cancer, calendar year, smoking, and highest achieved education. obesity was associated with higher incidence of premenopausal ovarian cancer and lower incidence of premenopausal breast cancer. because birth size appears to be positively associated with breast cancer risk, we have studied whether this risk may differ according to molecular breast cancer subtypes. we found a positive association of birth length with risk of luminal a, luminal b (her2+) and tn breast cancer that appears to be restricted to women whose mothers were relatively tall.
Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 prevents TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. [SEP] 
Bone marrow cells don't contribute to adult macrophage compartments. [SEP] 
Broadly HIV-1 Neutralizing Antibodies (bnAb) 10EB have no affinity for phospholipids. [SEP] ab initio prediction of specific phospholipid complexes and membrane association of hiv-1 mper antibodies by multi-scale simulations. a potent class of hiv-1 broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnabs) targets the envelope glycoprotein's membrane proximal exposed region (mper) through a proposed mechanism where hypervariable loops embed into lipid bilayers and engage headgroup moieties alongside the epitope. all-atom simulations of 4e10, pgzl1, 10e8, and ln01 docked onto hiv-like membranes consistently form phospholipid complexes at key complementarity-determining region loop sites, solidifying that stable and specific lipid interactions anchor bnabs to membrane surfaces. establishment of interactions with the envelope lipids is a cardinal feature of broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnabs) that recognize the env membrane-proximal external region (mper) of hiv. functional delineation of a protein-membrane interaction hotspot site on the hiv-1 neutralizing antibody 10e8. another mper-specific antibody, 10e8, has recently been reported to neutralize hiv-1 with potency and breadth much greater than those of 2f5 or 4e10, but it appeared not to bind phospholipids and might target the untriggered envelope spikes, raising the hope that the mper could be harnessed for vaccine design without major immunological concerns. the inability to generate broadly neutralizing antibody (bnab) responses to the membrane proximal external region (mper) of hiv-1 gp41 using current vaccine strategies has hampered efforts to prevent the spread of hiv. guided by structural insights and the unique lipid reactivity of anti-mper bnabs, we considered whether amino acid side chain modifications that emulate hydrophilic phospholipid head groups could contribute to the generation of 2f5-like or 4e10-like neutralizing anti-mper antibodies. nonneutralizing hiv-1 gp41 envelope cluster ii human monoclonal antibodies show polyreactivity for binding to phospholipids and protein autoantigens. the rare and difficult-to-induce neutralizing antibodies (2f5 and 4e10) that target gp41 membrane-proximal epitopes (mper) are polyspecific and require lipid binding for hiv-1 neutralization.
C2 works synergistically with A-769662 to activate dephosphorylated AMPK. [SEP] 
CCL19 is a ligand for CCR7. [SEP] ccl19 retained its key biological functions when fused to cancer neoantigens, including ccr7-dependent signaling and chemotaxis of dendritic cells. we have shown that c-c chemokine ligand 19 (ccl19) and ccl21 promote ligand-biased internalization and signaling of c-c chemokine receptor 7 (ccr7) in t cells. previous studies have identified ccl21 but not ccl19 as a functional ligand for this ccr7-dependent migration. the functional role of the ccl19-ccr7 axis was further validated using a bleomycin-induced ssc mouse model. the most significant ligand-receptor interaction between ccl19+ fibroblasts and t cells in ssc skin was ccl19-ccr7. we found that blocking the interaction between ccl19 and ccr7 in a mouse model of the disease reduced fibrosis and inflammation. the chemokine receptor c-c chemokine receptor (ccr7) is essential for immune cell trafficking, cancer metastasis, and autoimmune diseases, making it a significant therapeutic target. this study presents cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-em) structures of ccr7-g as a g-protein-coupled receptor, located on the cell membrane, ccr7 can be targeted by inhibiting one of its two ligands, c-c chemokine ligand 19 (ccl19), to regulate its function. we used a ccr7 antagonist, ccl19
CD28 initiates tonic signaling in conventional T cells, which causes an exhaustion phenotype and limited efficiency. [SEP] 
CD28 signals regulate trafficking of murine auto-reactive T cells into target tissues. [SEP] 
CD44v6 is not associated with constitutive and reprogrammed cancer stem cells driving cancer metastasis. [SEP] cd44v6 is frequently overexpressed in the malignancy, representing a promising therapeutic target. cd44v6 is associated with tumor aggressiveness and chemoresistance in bladder cancer. in this study, we explored the clinical and functional associations of cd44v6 expression in bladder cancer. these results suggest that cd44v6 may serve as a prognostic biomarker and a potential therapeutic target in bladder cancer. cd44 upregulation is linked to cancer stem cells (csc), metastasis, poor prognosis, and treatment response. cd44v6, a variant of cd44, plays a pivotal role in tumor invasion and metastasis by influencing the extracellular matrix, promoting cell motility, and suppressing cancer cell apoptosis. cd44v6 expression showed an inverse correlation with tumor cell metastasis to lymph nodes (p = 0.047). additionally, cd44v6 expression was linked to the tumor stage (p = 0.008). cd44v6-positive extracellular vesicles (evs) released by cancer cells drive tumor progression and liver metastasis. cd44v6, a splice variant overexpressed in crc, promotes tumor progression and immune evasion, representing a relevant target for selective drug delivery.
COPI coatmer is involved in lipid homeostasis. [SEP] 
Ca2+ cycling controls whole-body energy homeostasis in beige fat. [SEP] ucp1-independent signaling involving serca2b-mediated calcium cycling regulates beige fat thermogenesis and systemic glucose homeostasis. uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1) plays a central role in nonshivering thermogenesis in brown fat; however, its role in beige fat remains unclear. here we report a robust ucp1-independent thermogenic mechanism in beige fat that involves enhanced atp-dependent ca
Ca2+ cycling is a UCP1-dependent thermogenic mechanism. [SEP] identification of a molecular resistor that controls ucp1-independent ca adipose tissue thermogenesis contributes to energy balance via mitochondrial uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1) and ucp1-independent pathways. among ucp1-independent thermogenic mechanisms, one involves ca molecular regulation of thermogenic mechanisms in beige adipocytes. despite this progress, the mechanism underlying thermogenesis in beige adipose tissue remains highly controversial. it is widely acknowledged that beige adipose tissue has three additional thermogenic mechanisms in addition to the conventional ucp1-dependent thermogenesis: ca ucp1 dependent and independent thermogenesis in brown and beige adipocytes. thermogenic adipocytes express high levels of uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1) to dissipates energy in the form of heat by uncoupling the mitochondrial proton gradient from mitochondrial respiration. there is much evidence that ucp1 is the center of bat thermogenesis and systemic energy homeostasis. recently, ucp1 independent thermogenic pathway identified in thermogenic adipocytes. importantly, the thermogenic pathways are different in brown and beige adipocytes.
Ca2+ cycling is a UCP1-independent thermogenic mechanism. [SEP] identification of a molecular resistor that controls ucp1-independent ca adipose tissue thermogenesis contributes to energy balance via mitochondrial uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1) and ucp1-independent pathways. among ucp1-independent thermogenic mechanisms, one involves ca adipose tissue thermogenesis by calcium futile cycling. however, recent studies identified ucp1-independent thermogenic mechanisms in adipocytes. in this review, we discuss the current understandings of thermogenic mechanisms in adipocytes with a focus on ca2+ futile cycling. activation of ucp1-independent ca the identification of non-canonical ucp1-independent thermogenic mechanisms offers new opportunities to target such pathways to improve metabolic health. thermogenic adipocytes express high levels of uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1) to dissipates energy in the form of heat by uncoupling the mitochondrial proton gradient from mitochondrial respiration. recently, ucp1 independent thermogenic pathway identified in thermogenic adipocytes. ucp1-independent signaling involving serca2b-mediated calcium cycling regulates beige fat thermogenesis and systemic glucose homeostasis. here we report a robust ucp1-independent thermogenic mechanism in beige fat that involves enhanced atp-dependent ca
Cancer cells can stimulate the accumulation of intra-tumoural myeloid-derived suppressor cells by promoting granulocyte colony stimulating factor production. [SEP] 
Cancers that initially benefit from epidermal growth factor receptor targeted therapies later become refractory through several mechanisms. [SEP] 
Cardiac tissue-resident macrophages directly contribute to electrical activity. [SEP] 
Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Galliformes. [SEP] prediction of sex-determination mechanisms in avian primordial germ cells using rna-seq analysis. in birds, sex is determined through cell-autonomous mechanisms and various factors, such as the dosage of dmrt1. while the sex-determination mechanism in gonads is well known, the mechanism in germ cells remains unclear. in this study, we explored the gene expression profiles of male and female primordial germ cells (pgcs) during embryogenesis in chickens to predict the mechanism underlying sex determination. overall, our results suggest that sex determination in avian pgcs involves aspects of both cell-autonomous and somatic-cell regulation. somatic sex identity is cell autonomous in the chicken. in the mammalian model of sex determination, embryos are considered to be sexually indifferent until the transient action of a sex-determining gene initiates gonadal differentiation. here we have examined three lateral gynandromorph chickens (a rare, naturally occurring phenomenon in which one side of the animal appears male and the other female) to investigate the sex-determining mechanism in birds. these studies demonstrated that gynandromorph birds are genuine male:female chimaeras, and indicated that male and female avian somatic cells may have an inherent sex identity. our study demonstrates that avian somatic cells possess an inherent sex identity and that, in birds, sexual differentiation is substantively cell autonomous.
Cellular clocks are associated with mitosis timing in NIH 3T3 cells. [SEP] 
Cellular clocks are not predictive of mitosis timing in NIH 3T3 cells. [SEP] conception-calibrated male pediatric tumor mitotic clocks. molecular clocks can reconstruct tumorigenesis, but their calibration is limited by uncertainty in cancer ages. we developed mitotic clocks from rapidly fluctuating cpg (fcpg) dna methylation on the x chromosome in male cancers, applying a two-state markov model to estimate mitotic age and epimutation rates. third, bmal1 is functionally important for skeletal differentiation and stress adaptation, but selective bmal1 degradation and clockophagy have not yet been demonstrated in skeletal cells. c-myc is transcribed in a circadian manner and acts a clock disruptor whose timing minimizes its impacts. dhhc3-dependent s-acylation of cry1 regulates its subcellular localization and repressor function in the circadian clock. the circadian clock is essential for maintaining cellular homeostasis and physiological fitness. at the molecular level, core clock proteins function via transcriptional-translational feedback loops in the cellular oscillator, and are highly regulated by post-translational modifications. importantly, loss of cry1 s-acylation, either via cysteine mutagenesis or genetic deletion of dhhc3, impaired cry1 repressor function and consequently cellular circadian rhythms, suggesting that dynamic s-acylation couples cytoplasmic regulation of cry1 and its transcriptional repressor function in the nucleus. targeting cry1 s-acylation or its regulatory enzymes may constitute an innovative therapeutic approach against clock-associated diseases.
Cellular differentiation of embryonic stem cells is accompanied by changes in replication timing, transcription and nuclear localization. [SEP] 
Charcoal is an effective treatment for acute paraquat poisoning. [SEP] 
Charcoal shows no benefit for acute paraquat poisoning. [SEP] recommendations from the clinical toxicology recommendations collaborative on the administration of activated charcoal in acute oral overdose. the activated charcoal in clinical toxicology workgroup (the workgroup) was formed to provide recommendations on the administration of activated charcoal for gastrointestinal decontamination and enhanced elimination in poisoning. the workgroup concluded that there is no role for activated charcoal in poisoning from arsenic, caesium, copper, ethanol, methanol, ethylene glycol, iron, lead, lithium, and metformin. according to an individualized risk assessment, activated charcoal is appropriate up to 6 h post-ingestion for many poisons. multiple-dose activated charcoal for enhanced elimination is appropriate in poisoning with carbamazepine, cardiac glycosides, colchicine, dapsone, phenobarbital, phenytoin, thallium and theophylline. the following good practice statements were adopted to address the use of endotracheal intubation to facilitate the administration of activated charcoal.endotracheal intubation should not be performed solely for the purpose of administration of activated charcoal in patients not anticipated to develop clinically significant complications of poisoning.in patients in whom endotracheal intubation is clinically indicated (e.g., compromised or unprotected airway, respiratory failure, significantly diminished level of consciousness, refractory seizures, hemodynamic instability), insertion of a nasogastric or orogastric tube is reasonable to facilitate gastrointestinal decontamination with activated charcoal.in patients with a clinically significant risk of developing life-threatening toxicity, endotracheal intubation is reasonable to safely facilitate gastrointestinal decontamination, especially if other treatment options are nonexistent or unavailable. a survival case of intravenous paraquat intoxication: a case report. paraquat, an agent highly toxic to humans and animals, is a widely used herbicide and also commonly used for suicide attempts in taiwan. intravenous paraquat intoxication is rare. the prognosis of paraquat poisoning is determined by the time of poisoning and the plasma paraquat concentration before treatment.
Chenodeoxycholic acid treatment decreases brown adipose tissue activity. [SEP] pathological bile acid concentrations in chronic cholestasis cause adipose mitochondrial defects. although fat loss is observed in patients with cholestasis, how chronically elevated bile acids (bas) impact white and brown fat depots remains obscure. importantly, thermoneutral (30 °c) housing of the cholestatic dko mice rescues the decrease in brown fat mass, and the expression of genes responsible for lipogenesis and regulation of mitochondrial function. we uncover a detrimental effect of chronic bile acid overload on adipose mitochondrial function. chenodeoxycholic acid attenuates high-fat diet-induced obesity and hyperglycemia via the g protein-coupled bile acid receptor 1 and proliferator-activated receptor γ pathway. tgr5 is highly expressed in the mitochondria of brown adipose tissue (bat) and downregulates adenosine triphosphate synthesis via the bile acid-tgr5-cyclic adenosine monophosphate-2-iodothyronine deiodinase (d2)-triiodothyronine-uncoupling protein pathway, thus regulating energy homeostasis and reducing body weight. in addition, cdca inhibited adipocyte differentiation in 3t3-l1 cells and inhibited ligand-stimulated peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (pparγ) transcriptional activity. the bile acid chenodeoxycholic acid directly modulates metabolic pathways in white adipose tissue in vitro: insight into how bile acids decrease obesity. as such, we propose to determine whether the ba chenodeoxycholic acid (cdca) can exert anti-obesogenic effects in vitro, independent of thermogenic brown adipose tissue activation. our work demonstrates that cdca-induced metabolic alterations occur in white and brown adipocytes and are not totally dependent on endocrine/nervous system signaling, as thought until now.
Chenodeoxycholic acid treatment increases brown adipose tissue activity. [SEP] activation of brown adipocytes by farnesoid x receptor agonist, obeticholic acid-a potential novel therapeutic avenue in the management of obesity. activation of energy expenditure through an impact on the brown and beige adipose tissues has recently become an interesting new target in obesity treatment. chenodeoxycholic acid attenuates high-fat diet-induced obesity and hyperglycemia via the g protein-coupled bile acid receptor 1 and proliferator-activated receptor γ pathway. reduction of hypothalamic endoplasmic reticulum stress activates browning of white fat and ameliorates obesity. this study investigated the role of hypothalamic grp78 on energy balance, with particular interest in thermogenesis and browning of white adipose tissue (wat). the bile acid chenodeoxycholic acid directly modulates metabolic pathways in white adipose tissue in vitro: insight into how bile acids decrease obesity. as such, we propose to determine whether the ba chenodeoxycholic acid (cdca) can exert anti-obesogenic effects in vitro, independent of thermogenic brown adipose tissue activation. the bile acid chenodeoxycholic acid increases human brown adipose tissue activity. the interest in brown adipose tissue (bat) as a target to combat metabolic disease has recently been renewed with the discovery of functional bat in humans. in vitro treatment of primary human brown adipocytes derived with cdca or specific tgr5 agonists increased mitochondrial uncoupling and d2 expression, an effect that was absent in human primary white adipocytes.
Chlamydia trachomatis is most prevalent in the UK among sexually-experienced individuals aged 16 to 24. [SEP] we compared genital tract infection (gti) prevalence by symptom-based and laboratory assessment among sexually-experienced youth in south africa, overall and stratified by sex. laboratory tests assessed hiv, chlamydia trachomatis (ct), neisseria gonorrhoeae (ng), mycoplasma genitalium (mg), trichomonas vaginalis (tv) infections and, among females, bacterial vaginosis (bv) and candida species. sexual behaviour in britain: reported sexually transmitted infections and prevalent genital chlamydia trachomatis infection. as part of a national survey of sexual attitudes and lifestyles (natsal 2000) in britain, we estimated the frequency of self-reported stis, and the prevalence of urinary chlamydia trachomatis infection. half of all sexually experienced respondents aged 18-44 years were invited to provide a urine sample for ligase chain reaction testing for c trachomatis infection. 10.8% of men and 12.6% of women reported ever having an sti, 3.6% of men and 4.1% of women reported ever being diagnosed with genital warts, and 1.4% of men and 3.1% of women reported previous infection with c trachomatis. c trachomatis was found in 2.2% (95% ci 1.5-3.2) of men and 1.5% (95% ci 1.11-2.14) of women with age-specific prevalence being highest among men aged 25-34 (3.1%) and women aged 16-24 years (3.0%). non-married status, age, and reporting partner concurrency or two or more sexual partners in the past year were independently associated with infection with c trachomatis. we show substantial heterogeneity in distribution of reported stis, and the demographic and behavioural determinants of prevalent genital chlamydial infection. the results have potentially wide application for proposed chlamydia screening programmes which, given the demonstrated prevalence, must now proactively seek to involve men.
Cholesterol loading induces KLF4 expression in VSMCs, resulting in the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. [SEP] 
Citrullinated proteins externalized in neutrophil extracellular traps act indirectly to disrupt the inflammatory cycle. [SEP] 
Citrullinated proteins externalized in neutrophil extracellular traps act indirectly to perpetuate the inflammatory cycle via induction of autoantibodies. [SEP] 
Clathrin stabilizes the spindle fiber apparatus during mitosis. [SEP] clathrin's adaptor interaction sites are repurposed to stabilize microtubules during mitosis. clathrin ensures mitotic spindle stability and efficient chromosome alignment, independently of its vesicle trafficking function. although clathrin localizes to the mitotic spindle and kinetochore fiber microtubule bundles, the mechanisms by which clathrin stabilizes microtubules are unclear. clathrin heavy chain 1 (cltc) has been considered a “moonlighting protein” which acts in membrane trafficking during interphase and in stabilizing spindle fibers during mitosis. during metaphase clathrin stabilises the mitotic spindle kinetochore (k)-fibres. clathrin is a multimeric protein that has been shown to stabilise k-fibres during early mitosis by a mechanism independent of its role in membrane trafficking. this clathrin structure has previously been shown to be required for the function of the mitotic spindle through stabilization of kinetochore fibers. this complex is required for normal localization of clathrin at the mitotic spindle, which was previously reported to stabilize kinetochore fibres. during mitosis, clathrin contributes to kinetochore fibre stability. these results indicate that the key structural features of clathrin that are necessary for its function in mitosis are a trimeric molecule with a spindle interaction domain at each end, supporting the bridge hypothesis for clathrin function in mitosis.
Cnn1 recruitment varies with cell cycle timing. [SEP] 
Cognitive behavioral therapy is an ineffective treatment for insomnia [SEP] 
Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion are more effective after 12 weeks of reatment compared to varenicline monotherapy. [SEP] approved therapeutic options, such as mono- or combination nicotine replacement therapy and varenicline, are described alongside considerations for implementation in both outpatient and inpatient care settings. time-varying mediated effects of the nicotine patch on smoking before and after a quit attempt when it is added to varenicline and counseling. adding nicotine patches to varenicline and counseling improves positive affect in ways that predict lower next-day smoking risk in the first days of attempts to quit smoking but does not significantly improve withdrawal management or sustain confidence in quitting. addition of bupropion or varenicline to nicotine replacement therapy after acute coronary syndrome: a propensity-matched real-world analysis. two co-primary propensity-matched (1:1, 50 covariates, caliper 0.10 sd) comparisons evaluated bupropion + nrt and varenicline + nrt individually versus nrt alone; a supportive analysis evaluated combined pharmacotherapy versus nrt alone. both varenicline and bupropion individually showed lower mortality and mace. there are 3 first-line therapies designed for smoking cessation in combination with behavioral support; these include nicotine replacement therapy, varenicline, and bupropion. this proof-of-concept trial aimed to extend this work by testing whether the efficacy of varenicline relative to nicotine replacement treatment differs across the two neuroaffective reactivity profiles. twelve weeks of varenicline or nrt combined with brief cessation counseling. smokers seeking to quit who attribute greater incentive salience to cigarette-related cues than non-cigarette-related rewards benefit more from varenicline than from nicotine replacement therapy.
Commelina yellow mottle virus (ComYMV) has three typical badnavirus ORFs, capable of encoding proteins 23, 15, and 216 kD. [SEP] 
Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 2140 baise pairs. [SEP] 
Comparative transcriptome analysis identified new platelet proteins with structural features suggesting a role in platelet function. [SEP] abstracts from the 3rd international genomic medicine conference (3rd igmc 2015) : jeddah, kingdom of saudi arabia. o1 regulation of genes by telomere length over long distances jerry w. shay o2 the microtubule destabilizer kif2a regulates the postnatal establishment of neuronal circuits in addition to prenatal cell survival, cell migration, and axon elongation, and its loss leading to malformation of cortical development and severe epilepsy noriko homma, ruyun zhou, muhammad imran naseer, adeel g. chaudhary, mohammed al-qahtani, nobutaka hirokawa o3 integration of metagenomics and metabolomics in gut microbiome research maryam goudarzi, albert j. fornace jr. o4 a unique integrated system to discern pathogenesis of central nervous system tumors saleh baeesa, deema hussain, mohammed bangash, fahad alghamdi, hans-juergen schulten, angel carracedo, ishaq khan, hanadi qashqari, nawal madkhali, mohamad saka, kulvinder s. saini, awatif jamal, jaudah al-maghrabi, adel abuzenadah, adeel chaudhary, mohammed al qahtani, ghazi damanhouri o5 rpl27a is a target of mir-595 and deficiency contributes to ribosomal dysgenesis heba alkhatabi o6 next generation dna sequencing panels for haemostatic and platelet disorders and for fanconi anaemia in routine diagnostic service anne goodeve, laura crookes, nikolas niksic, nicholas beauchamp o7 targeted sequencing panels and their utilization in personalized medicine adel m. abuzenadah o8 international biobanking in the era of precision medicine jim vaught o9 biobank and biodata for clinical and forensic applications bruce budowle, mourad assidi, abdelbaset buhmeida o10 tissue microarray technique: a powerful adjunct tool for molecular profiling of solid tumors jaudah al-maghrabi o11 the cegmr biobanking unit: achievements, challenges and future plans abdelbaset buhmeida, mourad assidi, leena merdad o12 phylomedicine of tumors sudhir kumar, sayaka miura, karen gomez o13 clinical implementation of pharmacogenomics for colorectal cancer treatment angel carracedo, mahmood rasool o14 from association to causality: translation of gwas findings for genomic medicine ahmed rebai o15 e-grasp: an interactive database and web application for efficient analysis of disease-associated genetic information sajjad karim, hend f nour eldin, heba abusamra, elham m alhathli, nada salem, mohammed h al-qahtani, sudhir kumar o16 the supercomputer facility “aziz” at kau: utility and future prospects hossam faheem o17 new research into the causes of male infertility ashok agarwa o18 the klinefelter syndrome: recent progress in pathophysiology and management eberhard nieschlag, joachim wistuba, oliver s. damm, mohd a. beg, taha a. abdel-meguid, hisham a. mosli, osama s. bajouh, adel m. abuzenadah, mohammed h. al-qahtani o19 a new look to reproductive medicine in the era of genomics serdar coskun p1 wnt signalling receptors expression in saudi breast cancer patients muhammad abu-elmagd, abdelbaset buhmeida, ashraf dallol, jaudah al-maghrabi, sahar hakamy, wejdan al-qahtani, asia al-harbi, shireen hussain, mourad assidi, mohammed al-qahtani, adel abuzenadah p2 analysis of oxidative stress interactome during spermatogenesis: a systems biology approach to reproduction burak ozkosem, rick dubois p3 interleukin-18 gene variants are strongly associated with idiopathic recurrent pregnancy loss. molecular characterization of lymphatic endothelial cells. specialized functions of lymphatics suggest differences in the molecular composition of the lymphatic and blood vascular endothelium. however, the extent to which the two cell types differ is still unclear, and few molecules that are truly specific to lymphatic endothelial cells have been identified to date. we have isolated primary lymphatic and blood microvascular endothelial cells from human skin by immunoselection with the lymphatic marker lyve-1 and demonstrate that the two cell lineages express distinct sets of vascular markers and respond differently to growth factors and extracellular matrix. comparative microarray analysis of gene-expression profiles revealed a number of unique molecular properties that distinguish lymphatic and blood vascular endothelium. the molecular profile of lymphatic endothelium seems to reflect characteristic functional and structural features of the lymphatic capillaries. classification of the differentially expressed genes into functional groups revealed particularly high levels of genes implicated in protein sorting and trafficking, indicating a more active role of lymphatic endothelium in uptake and transport of molecules than previously anticipated. the identification of a large number of genes selectively expressed by lymphatic endothelium should facilitate the discovery of hitherto unknown lymphatic vessel markers and provide a basis for the analysis of the molecular mechanisms accounting for the characteristic functions of lymphatic capillaries.
Consumption of whole fruits increases the risk of type 2 diabetes. [SEP] a meta-analysis of available data of the effects of selected whole and powdered fruits on glycemia in type 2 diabetes. our intent was to evaluate the effects of whole fruit-based products consumption on hba1c levels in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus through a systematic review and meta-analysis. whole fruit-based products consumption may improve hba1c, fasting blood glucose, and hdl cholesterol levels in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. sugar-sweetened beverages are associated with an increased risk of obesity and type 2 diabetes (t2dm) and show clear differential metabolic responses compared with 100% fruit juice, which is unsweetened by law. consumption of fruit juice and risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies. in the meta-analysis of all studies, there was no significant association between the consumption of overall fruit juice and the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (rr, 1.06 [95% ci, 0.98-1.15], p = .170). in the subgroup meta-analysis by juice type, non-100% fruit juice was statistically significantly associated with an increased risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (rr, 1.15 [95% ci, 1.03-1.28], p = .012), while there was no significant association between the consumption of 100% fruit juice and the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus. an increased risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus by fruit juice was observed only in asian populations (rr, 1.17 [95% ci 1.02-1.34], p = .023). the consumption of non-100% fruit juice increased the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus. unlike whole fruit consumption, 100% fruit juice had no beneficial effect on the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Converting apoE4 to apoE3 by gene editing prevents the pathology associated with apoE4 in human iPSCderived neurons. [SEP] 
Converting apoE4 to apoE3 by gene editing worsens the pathology associated with apoE4 in human iPSCderived neurons. [SEP] 
Cost effectiveness evaluations based on cRCT data accurately reflect prices for patients in actual clinical practice. [SEP] 
Cost effectiveness evaluations based on cRCT data lack external validity. [SEP] 
Cyclin A2 destruction is necessary to switch from unstable to stable kt-mt attachments in mitosis. [SEP] 
Cytochrome c is transferred from cytosol to the mitochondrial intermembrane space during apoptosis. [SEP] 
DRD1 proteins enable Pol V transcription in vivo. [SEP] 
DUSP4 decreases apoptosis. [SEP] dusp4 expression was markedly decreased in both in vitro and in vivo settings. overexpression of dusp4 attenuated dox-induced cardiotoxicity, while dusp4 knockdown exacerbated apoptosis and autophagy. dusp4 inactivation leads to reduced extracellular signal‒regulated kinase activity through upregulation of dusp6 in melanoma cells. among them, dusp4 is reported to preferentially dephosphorylate extracellular signal‒regulated kinase (erk) 1/2 and c-jun n-terminal kinase over p38. in this study, we aimed to identify a possible role of dusp4 in melanoma genesis. using two melanoma lines, we confirmed that dusp4 depletion impaired cell growth without notably inducing apoptosis. notably, dusp4 depletion led to an increase in dusp6 level, possibly through a post-transcriptional process, and dusp6 knockout almost eliminated the dusp4-depletion effect on cell growth and erk activity. following overexpression of dusp4 by cell transfection, cell counting kit-8, elisa, tunel and western blotting assays were used to detect the cell viability, oxidative stress, inflammation and apoptosis levels of lps-induced atdc5 cells. overexpression of dusp4 inhibited the activation of the mapk signaling pathway, thereby reducing oxidative stress levels, inflammatory response and apoptosis in the oa cell model. the addition of pma reversed the inhibitory effects of dusp4 overexpression on oxidative stress, inflammatory response and apoptosis in cells.
DUSP4 downregulation deactivates the Ras-ERK pathway [SEP] 
DUSP4 increases apoptosis. [SEP] the transcription factor pitx1 cooperates with super-enhancers to regulate the expression of dusp4 and inhibit pyroptosis in pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells. in addition, treatment with the se inhibitors jq1 and ibet decreased the transcription of dusp4 and increased the expression of hypoxia-induced pyroptosis proteins in pasmcs. reduction of dusp4 contributes to podocytes oxidative stress, insulin resistance and diabetic nephropathy. dusp4 inactivation leads to reduced extracellular signal‒regulated kinase activity through upregulation of dusp6 in melanoma cells. among them, dusp4 is reported to preferentially dephosphorylate extracellular signal‒regulated kinase (erk) 1/2 and c-jun n-terminal kinase over p38. in this study, we aimed to identify a possible role of dusp4 in melanoma genesis. using two melanoma lines, we confirmed that dusp4 depletion impaired cell growth without notably inducing apoptosis. interestingly, immunoblotting and kinase translocation reporter data revealed that dusp4 depletion induces a decrease in erk1/2 phosphorylation but barely affects c-jun n-terminal kinase phosphorylation, suggesting that neither erk nor c-jun n-terminal kinase is a direct target of dusp4 in our experimental setting. notably, dusp4 depletion led to an increase in dusp6 level, possibly through a post-transcriptional process, and dusp6 knockout almost eliminated the dusp4-depletion effect on cell growth and erk activity. our findings suggest that dusp4 plays a role in maintaining a high erk1/2 activity by negatively regulating dusp6 and thus contributes to the survival and growth of melanoma cells.
Decreased diastolic blood pressure (DBP) is associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm. [SEP] 
Deltex has no known interactions with eIF3f. [SEP] 
Deltex interacts with eIF3. There is no known interaction between Deltex and elF3 [SEP] 
Depletion of T-helper 17 (Th17) cells during simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection decreases dissemination of Salmonella Typhimurium from the gut. [SEP] 
Depletion of T-helper 17 (Th17) cells during simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection increases dissemination of Salmonella Typhimurium from the gut. [SEP] simian immunodeficiency virus-induced mucosal interleukin-17 deficiency promotes salmonella dissemination from the gut. salmonella typhimurium causes a localized enteric infection in immunocompetent individuals, whereas hiv-infected individuals develop a life-threatening bacteremia. here we show that simian immunodeficiency virus (siv) infection results in depletion of t helper type 17 (th17) cells in the ileal mucosa of rhesus macaques, thereby impairing mucosal barrier functions to s. typhimurium dissemination. in siv-negative macaques, the gene expression profile induced by s. typhimurium in ligated ileal loops was dominated by th17 responses, including the expression of interleukin-17 (il-17) and il-22. th17 cells were markedly depleted in siv-infected rhesus macaques, resulting in blunted th17 responses to s. typhimurium infection and increased bacterial dissemination. il-17 receptor-deficient mice showed increased systemic dissemination of s. typhimurium from the gut, suggesting that il-17 deficiency causes defects in mucosal barrier function. we conclude that siv infection impairs the il-17 axis, an arm of the mucosal immune response preventing systemic microbial dissemination from the gastrointestinal tract.
Depletion of nitric oxide is responsible for vasospasm. [SEP] the effects of l-arginine and iloprost on the viability of random skin flaps in rats. the effects of an intravenous infusion of l-arginine as a physiological precursor of endothelium-derived relaxing factor/nitric oxide (edrf/no), iloprost (a stable prostacyclin (pgi2) analogue), and l-arginine combined with iloprost on skin viability were studied in 9 x 3 cm random pattern skin flaps in rats. there was a significant reduction in distal necrosis of random skin flaps after intravenous infusion of l-arginine, iloprost, and l-arginine combined with iloprost (p < 0.01). possible mechanisms that may be responsible for impairment of endothelium-dependent vasodilation and vasospasm in the microvasculature of random skin flap and their prevention with l-arginine and iloprost include restoration of the depleted stores of no which in turn causes vasodilatation and has an antithrombotic effect. rapid removal of magnesium from krebs-bicarbonate medium used to bathe isolated rings of precontracted artery or vein caused transient endothelium- and calcium-dependent relaxation and cyclic gmp accumulation. the transient relaxation was followed by sustained endothelium-independent contraction. the data suggest that vascular endothelium-derived nitric oxide is responsible for the calcium-dependent relaxation elicited by extracellular magnesium depletion. indeed, in bioassay cascade studies, magnesium removal from the medium used to perfuse intact artery or vein enhanced the formation and/or release of an endothelium-derived relaxing factor by calcium-dependent mechanisms. thus, magnesium and calcium elicit reciprocal or mutually antagonistic effects at the levels of both endothelium-derived relaxing factor formation and/or release and smooth muscle contraction. this relation may be of physiological importance, and the possibility that a reduction in circulating magnesium levels could lead to calcium-mediated vasospasm may be of pathophysiological concern.
Deregulation of HAND2 is a crucial step in endometrial carcinogenesis in mice. [SEP] 
Dexamethasone increases risk of postoperative bleeding. [SEP] in the current systematic review with meta-analysis, we hypothesized that the use of dexamethasone reduces perioperative opioid consumption in pediatric tonsillectomy but does not increase rates of postoperative hemorrhage. intravenous dexamethasone administration significantly reduced opioid consumption (md, -0.11 mg·kg intravenous dexamethasone reduced perioperative opioid consumption in pediatric tonsillectomy without increasing the incidence of postoperative hemorrhage. l’administration intraveineuse de dexaméthasone a permis de réduire significativement la consommation d’opioïdes (dm, −0,11 mg·kg la dexaméthasone par voie intraveineuse a réduit la consommation périopératoire d’opioïdes dans les cas d’amygdalectomie pédiatrique, sans augmenter l’incidence d’hémorragie postopératoire. perioperative dexamethasone split between two doses further reduced early postoperative nausea and vomiting than single-dose dexamethasone: a randomized blinded placebo-controlled trial. we investigated whether two doses of dexamethasone are more effective than a single dose in reducing early postoperative nausea and vomiting (ponv) during total knee arthroplasty (tka). effect of intravenous dexamethasone on postoperative pain in patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty: a systematic review and meta-analysis. the purpose of this systematic review and meta-analysis was to evaluate the impact of intravenous dexamethasone on postoperative pain among patients undergoing tka. in addition, the incidence of ponv, postoperative vas score, and use of antiemetic and analgesic rescue were significantly decreased without increasing the risk of early surgical wound infection and gastrointestinal hemorrhage in patients receiving dexamethasone. dexamethasone reduces the incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting in children undergoing endoscopic adenoidectomy under general anesthesia without increasing the risk of postoperative hemorrhage. conclusions a prospective controlled study in children undergoing endoscopic adenoidectomy under general anesthesia showed that dexamethasone (0.15 mg/kg) significantly reduced the incidence of ponv without increasing the risk of postoperative hemorrhage.
Diabetes remission occurs less in people treated with conventional therapy than in people treated with laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding surgery. [SEP] 
Diabetes remission occurs more in people treated with conventional therapy than in people treated with laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding surgery. [SEP] 
Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience decreased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. [SEP] b adamik, d jakubczyk, a kübler p052 - frequency and outcome of early sepsis-associated coagulopathy a. radford, t. lee, j. a case-control pilot study e. scarlatescu, d. tomescu, g. droc, s. arama p054 - thromboelastometry in critically ill patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation m. müller, m. straat, s. s. zeerleder, n. p. juffermans p055 - cessation of a preexisting chronic antiplatelet therapy is associated with increased mortality rates in severe sepsis and septic shock c. f. fuchs, c. s. scheer, s. w. wauschkuhn, m. v. vollmer, k. m. meissner, s. k. kuhn, k. h. hahnenkamp, s. r. rehberg, m. g. gründling p056 - neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) production under hypoxic condition n. yamamoto, m. ojima, s. hamaguchi, t. hirose, y. akeda, r. takegawa, o. tasaki, t. shimazu, k. tomono p057 - impact of ultraviolet air sterilizer in intensive care unit room, and clinical outcomes of patients e. gómez-sánchez, m. heredia-rodríguez, e. álvarez-fuente, m. lorenzo-lópez, e. gómez-pesquera, m. aragón-camino, p. liu-zhu, a. sánchez-lópez, a. hernández-lozano, m. t. peláez-jareño, e. tamayo p058 - focus of infection in severe sepsis - comparison of administrative data and prospective cohorts from germany d. o. thomas-rüddel, c. fleischmann, c. haas, u. dennler, k. reinhart p059 - “zero clabsi” – can we get there? de laat, m. lance p124 - rotational thromboelastometry versus standard coagulation tests before surgical interventions m. durila, p. lukas, m. astraverkhava, j. jonas p125 - correction of impaired clot quality and stability by fibrinogen and activated prothrombin complex concentrate in a model of severe thrombocytopenia i. budnik, b. shenkman p126 - assessment of point-of-care prothrombin time analyzer as a monitor after cardiopulmonary bypass h. hayami, y. koide, t. goto p127 - disseminated intravascular coagulation (dic) is underdiagnosed in critically ill patients: do we need d-dimer measurements? r. iqbal, y. alhamdi, n. venugopal, s. abrams, c. downey, c. h. toh, i. d. welters p128 - validity of the age-adjusted d-dimer cutoff in patients with copd b. bombay, j. m. chauny, r. d. daoust, j. l. lessard, m. m. marquis, j. p. paquet p129 - a scoping review of strategies for prevention and management of bleeding following paediatric cardiopulmonary bypass surgery k. siemens, d. sangaran, b. j. a. murdoch, s. m. tibby p130 - nadir hemoglobulin during cardiopulmonary bypass: impact on postoperative morbidity and mortality f. ampatzidou, d. moisidou, e. dalampini, m. nastou, e. vasilarou, v. kalaizi, h. chatzikostenoglou, g. drossos p131 - red blood cell transfusion do not influence the prognostic value of rdw in critically ill patients s. spadaro, a. fogagnolo, t. fiore, a. schiavi, v. fontana, f. taccone, c. volta p132 - reasons for admission in the paediatric intensive care unit and the need for blood and blood products transfusions e. chochliourou, e. volakli, a. violaki, e. samkinidou, g. evlavis, v. panagiotidou, m. sdougka p133 - the implementation of a massive haemorrhage protocol (mhp) for the management of major trauma: a ten year, single-centre study r. mothukuri, c. battle, k. guy, g. mills, p. evans p134 - an integrated major haemorrhage protocol for pre-hospital and retrieval medical teams j. wijesuriya, s. keogh p135 - the impact of transfusion thresholds on mortality and cardiovascular events in patients with cardiovascular disease (non-cardiac surgery): a systematic review and meta-analysis a. docherty, r. o’donnell, s. brunskill, m. trivella, c. doree, l. holst, m. parker, m. gregersen, j. almeida, t. walsh, s. stanworth p136 - the relationship between poor pre-operative immune status and outcome from cardiac surgery is specific to the peri-operative antigenic threat s. moravcova, j. mansell, a. rogers, r. a. smith, c. hamilton-davies p137 - impact of simple clinical practice guidelines for reducing post-operative atrial fibrillation after cardiac surgery. can it minimise mortality in comparison to traditional strategies? r. tincu, c. cobilinschi, d. tomescu, z. ghiorghiu, r. macovei p294 - parenteral selenium in the critically ill: an updated systematic review and meta-analysis w. manzanares, p. langlois, m. lemieux, g. elke, f. bloos, k. reinhart, d. heyland p295 - probiotics in the critically ill: an updated systematic review and meta-analysis p. langlois, m. lemieux, i. aramendi, d. heyland, w. manzanares p296 - diabetes with hyperglycemic crisis episodes may be associated with higher risk of pancreatic cancer: a population-based cohort study y. su p297 - incidence of hypoglycemia in an intensive care unit depending on insulin protocol r. marinho, n. babo, a. marinho p298 - severity of the diseases is two-dimensionally correlated to blood glucose, including blood glucose variability, especially in moderately to severely ill patients with glucose intolerance. m. hoshino, y. haraguchi, s. kajiwara, t. mitsuhashi, t. tsubata, m. aida p299 - a study of glycemic control by subcutaneous glargine injection transition from continuous regular insulin infusion in critically ill patients t. rattanapraphat, r. bhurayanontachai, c. kongkamol, b. khwannimit p300 - glycemic control in portuguese intensive care unit r. marinho, m. santos, h. castro, e. lafuente, a. salgueiro, s. cabral, p. martins, j. moura, b. oliveira, m. melo, b. xavier, j. valente, c. magalhaes, p. casteloes, a. marinho p301 - impact of hyperglycemia duration on the day of operation on short-term outcome of cardiac surgery patients d. moisidou, f. ampatzidou, c. koutsogiannidis, m. moschopoulou, g. drossos p302 - lactate levels in diabetic ketoacidosis patients at icu admissions g. taskin, m. çakir, ak güler, a. taskin, n. öcal, s. özer, l. yamanel p303 - intensive care implications of merging heart attack centre units in london j. m. wong, c. fitton, s. anwar, s. stacey p304 - special characteristics of in-hospital cardiac arrests m. aggou, b. fyntanidou, s. patsatzakis, e. oloktsidou, k. lolakos, e. papapostolou, v. grosomanidis p305 - clinical evaluation of icu-admitted patients who were resuscitated in the general medicine ward s. suda , t. ikeda, s. ono, t. ueno, y. izutani p306 - serious game evaluation of a one-hour training basic life support session for secondary school students: new tools for future bystanders s. gaudry, v. desailly, p. pasquier, pb brun, at tesnieres, jd ricard, d. dreyfuss, a. mignon p307 - public and clinical staff perceptions and knowledge of cpr compared to local and national data j. a. rubio, r. sierra p336 red blood cell transfusion in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage – the sahara cohort study s. english, m. chasse, a. turgeon, f. lauzier, d. griesdale, a. garland, d. fergusson, r. zarychanski, a. tinmouth, c. van walraven, k. montroy, j. ziegler, r. dupont chouinard, r. carignan, a. dhaliwal, c. lum, j. sinclair, g. pagliarello, l. mcintyre p337 - aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and anemia: a canadian multi-centre retrospective cohort study s. english, m. chasse, a. turgeon, f. lauzier, d. griesdale, a. garland, d. fergusson, r. zarychanski, a. tinmouth, c. van walraven, k. montroy, j. ziegler, r. dupont chouinard, r. carignan, a. dhaliwal, c. lum, j. sinclair, g. pagliarello, l. mcintyre p338 - does the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte (nlr) ratio predict symptomatic vasospasm or delayed cerebral ischemia (dci) after aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (sah)? p. killeen, m. mcphail, w. bernal, j. maggs, j. wendon, t. hughes p382 - systemic inflammatory response syndrome criteria and hospital mortality prediction in a brazilian cohort of critically ill patients l. u. taniguchi, e. m. siqueira, j. m. vieira jr, l. c. azevedo p383 - evaluating the efficacy of a risk predictor panel in identifying patients at elevated risk of morbidity following emergency admission a. n. ahmad, m. abu-habsa, r. bahl, e. helme, s. hadfield, r. loveridge p384 - a retrospective comparison of outcomes for elective surgical patients admitted post-operatively to the critical care unit or general ward j. shak, c. senver, r. howard-griffin p385 - effect of obesity on mortality in surgical critically ill patients.
Differentiation of progenitor cells to myeloid cells is skewed upon activation of insulin signaling. [SEP] insulin-insr signaling drives multipotent progenitor differentiation toward lymphoid lineages. the lineage commitment of hscs generates balanced myeloid and lymphoid populations in hematopoiesis. however, the underlying mechanisms that control this process remain largely unknown. here, we show that insulin-insulin receptor (insr) signaling is required for lineage commitment of multipotent progenitors (mpps). deletion of insr in murine bone marrow causes skewed differentiation of mpps to myeloid cells. mtor acts as a downstream effector that modulates mpp differentiation. mtor activates stat3 by phosphorylation at serine 727 under insulin stimulation, which binds to the promoter of ikaros, leading to its transcription priming. our findings reveal that the insulin-insr signaling drives mpp differentiation into lymphoid lineages in early lymphopoiesis, which is essential for maintaining a balanced immune system for an individual organism.
Differentiation of progenitor cells to myeloid cells is skewed when insulin signaling is suppressed. [SEP] dietary restriction improves repopulation but impairs lymphoid differentiation capacity of hematopoietic stem cells in early aging. dietary restriction (dr) improves health, delays tissue aging, and elongates survival in flies and worms. however, studies on laboratory mice and nonhuman primates revealed ambiguous effects of dr on lifespan despite improvements in health parameters. in this study, we analyzed consequences of adult-onset dr (24 h to 1 yr) on hematopoietic stem cell (hsc) function. dr ameliorated hsc aging phenotypes, such as the increase in number of hscs and the skewing toward myeloid-biased hscs during aging. furthermore, dr increased hsc quiescence and improved the maintenance of the repopulation capacity of hscs during aging. in contrast to these beneficial effects, dr strongly impaired hsc differentiation into lymphoid lineages and particularly inhibited the proliferation of lymphoid progenitors, resulting in decreased production of peripheral b lymphocytes and impaired immune function. the study shows that dr-dependent suppression of growth factors and interleukins mediates these divergent effects caused by dr. supplementation of insulin-like growth factor 1 partially reverted the dr-induced quiescence of hscs, whereas il-6/il-7 substitutions rescued the impairment of b lymphopoiesis exposed to dr. together, these findings delineate positive and negative effects of long-term dr on hsc functionality involving distinct stress and growth signaling pathways.
Diminished ovarian reserve is a reliable indicator of infertility in a non-infertile population. [SEP] 
Drosophila supracellular actomyosin structures are found at boundaries in wing imaginal discs. [SEP] 
Dscam1 acts as a hypervariable pattern-recognition receptor for the immune system. [SEP] 
ERAP1 SNPs are epistatic to HLA alleles for ankylosing spondylitis. [SEP] epistatic interactions between killer immunoglobulin-like receptors and human leukocyte antigen ligands are associated with ankylosing spondylitis. the killer immunoglobulin-like receptors (kirs), found predominantly on the surface of natural killer (nk) cells and some t-cells, are a collection of highly polymorphic activating and inhibitory receptors with variable specificity for class i human leukocyte antigen (hla) ligands. fifteen kir genes are inherited in haplotypes of diverse gene content across the human population, and the repertoire of independently inherited kir and hla alleles is known to alter risk for immune-mediated and infectious disease by shifting the threshold of lymphocyte activation. we have conducted the largest disease-association study of kir-hla epistasis to date, enabled by the imputation of kir gene and hla allele dosages from genotype data for 12,214 healthy controls and 8,107 individuals with the hla-b*27-associated immune-mediated arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis (as). we identified epistatic interactions between kir genes and their ligands (at both hla subtype and allele resolution) that increase risk of disease, replicating analyses in a semi-independent cohort of 3,497 cases and 14,844 controls. we further confirmed that the strong as-association with a pathogenic variant in the endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase gene erap1, known to alter the hla-b*27 presented peptidome, is not modified by carriage of the canonical hla-b receptor kir3dl1/s1. overall, our data suggests that as risk is modified by the complement of kirs and hla ligands inherited, beyond the influence of hla-b*27 alone, which collectively alter the proinflammatory capacity of kir-expressing lymphocytes to contribute to disease immunopathogenesis.
Early patent ductus ateriosus (PDA) screening decreases in-hospital mortality. [SEP] 
Early patent ductus ateriosus (PDA) screening increases in-hospital mortality. [SEP] 
Ectopic expression of Sall4, Nanog, Esrrb, and Lin28 generates induced pluripotent stem cells from mouse embryonic fibroblasts more efficiently than other factor combinations. [SEP] the developmental potential of ipscs is greatly influenced by reprogramming factor selection. induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) are commonly generated by transduction of oct4, sox2, klf4, and myc (oskm) into cells. although ipscs are pluripotent, they frequently exhibit high variation in terms of quality, as measured in mice by chimera contribution and tetraploid complementation. reliably high-quality ipscs will be needed for future therapeutic applications. here, we show that one major determinant of ipsc quality is the combination of reprogramming factors used. based on tetraploid complementation, we found that ectopic expression of sall4, nanog, esrrb, and lin28 (snel) in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (mefs) generated high-quality ipscs more efficiently than other combinations of factors including oskm. although differentially methylated regions, transcript number of master regulators, establishment of specific superenhancers, and global aneuploidy were comparable between high- and low-quality lines, aberrant gene expression, trisomy of chromosome 8, and abnormal h2a.x deposition were distinguishing features that could potentially also be applicable to human.
Egr2 regulates the homeostasis of B and T cells. [SEP] 
Egr3 regulates the homeostasis of B and T cells. [SEP] 
Eilat virus (EILV) produced in mosquitos elicits rapid and long-lasting neutralizing antibodies in nonhuman primates. [SEP] a chikungunya fever vaccine utilizing an insect-specific virus platform. traditionally, vaccine development involves tradeoffs between immunogenicity and safety. live-attenuated vaccines typically offer rapid and durable immunity but have reduced safety when compared to inactivated vaccines. to overcome these tradeoffs, we developed the insect-specific alphavirus, eilat virus (eilv), as a vaccine platform. to address the chikungunya fever (chikf) pandemic, we used an eilv cdna clone to design a chimeric virus containing the chikungunya virus (chikv) structural proteins. the recombinant eilv/chikv was structurally identical at 10 å to wild-type chikv, as determined by single-particle cryo-electron microscopy, and it mimicked the early stages of chikv replication in vertebrate cells from attachment and entry to viral rna delivery. yet the recombinant virus remained completely defective for productive replication, providing a high degree of safety. a single dose of eilv/chikv produced in mosquito cells elicited rapid (within 4 d) and long-lasting (>290 d) neutralizing antibodies that provided complete protection in two different mouse models. in nonhuman primates, eilv/chikv elicited rapid and robust immunity that protected against viremia and telemetrically monitored fever. our eilv platform represents the first structurally native application of an insect-specific virus in preclinical vaccine development and highlights the potential application of such viruses in vaccinology.
Elevated cell-free mitochondrial DNA levels are associated with mortality. [SEP] assessment of circulating cell-free mitochondrial dna as a damage associated molecular pattern in predicting severity and mortality of sepsis and septic shock patients. cell-free mitochondrial dna (mtdna) has emerged as a potential mediator in sepsis pathogenesis, acting as a damage-associated molecular pattern (damp) that exacerbates inflammation. the present study aimed to assess cell-free mtdna levels as predictors of mortality and disease severity, and to determine their correlation with established clinical markers. plasma cell-free mtdna levels were quantified using rt-qpcr, and receiver operating characteristic (roc) curves were used to evaluate the predictive ability of cell-free mtdna for 28-day mortality. this study aimed to evaluate the prognostic value of circulating cell-free mitochondrial dna (cf-mtdna) in predicting short-term mortality in hbv-aclf patients. circulating cell-free mitochondrial dna (ccf-mtdna) has been proposed as an immune stimulator and potential predictor of mortality in acute illnesses. elevated nuclear and mitochondrial cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid measurements are associated with death after infant cardiac surgery. quantified cell-free dna (cfdna), of nuclear or mitochondrial origin, has emerged as a biomarker for both inflammation and myocardial injury. circulating mitochondrial dna in patients in the icu as a marker of mortality: derivation and validation. we hypothesized that circulating cell-free mtdna levels would be associated with mortality and improve risk prediction in icu patients.
Energy balance requires hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission. [SEP] 
Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines damages viral control in the lung. [SEP] 
Environmental factors can influence the development of breast cancer. [SEP] breast cancer is the most common malignant tumor among women worldwide, with clinical stage and molecular subtype being key prognostic factors. its causes are multifaceted, involving modifiable risk factors like physical activity, obesity, diet, and breastfeeding. diet influences various aspects of breast cancer, including its development, prevention, prognosis, and treatment results. the human microbiome reshapes the breast cancer immune-metabolic-hormonal microenvironment. beyond established risk factors such as genetics and hormones, the human microbiome has emerged as a pivotal player in breast cancer pathogenesis. this review delineates the technological evolution in breast microbiome research, spanning traditional culture methods to high-throughput sequencing and cutting-edge spatial omics. we elucidate the role of the gut-breast axis in modulating breast cancer development through its influence on estrogen metabolism, immune responses, and microbial metabolites. finally, we discuss the translational potential of microbiome research in refining breast cancer risk prediction, evaluating treatment responses, and advancing personalized prevention and treatment strategies, ultimately contributing to improved patient outcomes. understanding the drivers of cancer mortality is crucial for effective public health planning. key determinants include radiation exposure, breast morphology, comorbid conditions, prior breast surgery, and psychosocial preferences.
Environmentally-induced senescence is mimicked in disease modeling by adding specific molecules to the culture system. [SEP] 
Excess gestational weight gain is associated with obesity-related pregnancy outcomes. [SEP] during pregnancy, obesity is correlated with higher risks for numerous complications, including gestational diabetes mellitus, pre-eclampsia, mortality, and large-for-gestational-age neonates. pregnancy is a time of high risk for excessive weight gain, leading to health-related consequences for mothers and offspring. the mutual effect of pre-pregnancy body mass index, waist circumference and gestational weight gain on obesity-related adverse pregnancy outcomes: a birth cohort study. the aim of this study was to examine the mutual effect of pre-pregnancy body mass index (bmi), waist circumference (wc) and gestational weight gain (gwg) on obesity-related adverse pregnancy outcomes. multivariate logistic regression models were conducted to estimate the effects of maternal pre-pregnancy bmi, wc and gwg on obesity-related adverse pregnancy outcomes including gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm), primary cesarean section (p-cs), large for gestational age (lga) and composite outcome (one or more adverse pregnancy outcomes). the results of this study suggest that maternal pre-pregnancy overweight/obesity and central adiposity may contribute to multiple obesity-related adverse pregnancy outcomes, excessive weight gain during pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of lga. lifestyle interventions that moderate gestational weight gain may reduce the risk of poor pregnancy outcomes, such as gestational diabetes, gestational hypertension, large for gestational age, and macrosomia, as well as lower the risk for significant postpartum retention. maternal childhood adversity, prepregnancy obesity, and gestational weight gain. high maternal weight complicates pregnancy and increases the risk of child obesity. this study points to an association between maternal excess weight in pregnancy and offspring bmi change from adolescence to adulthood.
Exercise increases cancer mortality rates among Chinese citizens. [SEP] breast cancer is a leading cause of mortality and morbidity among females worldwide. as part of the global burden of diseases, injuries, and risk factors study (gbd) 2023, we provided an updated comprehensive assessment of the epidemiological trends, disease burden, and risk factors associated with breast cancer globally, regionally, and nationally from 1990 to 2023. the global, regional, and national burden of cancer, 1990-2023, with forecasts to 2050: a systematic analysis for the global burden of disease study 2023. cancer is a leading cause of death globally. to inform global cancer-control efforts, we used the global burden of diseases, injuries, and risk factors study (gbd) 2023 framework to generate and analyse estimates of cancer burden for 47 cancer types or groupings by age, sex, and 204 countries and territories from 1990 to 2023, cancer burden attributable to selected risk factors from 1990 to 2023, and forecasted cancer burden up to 2050. we used the gbd 2023 comparative risk assessment framework to estimate cancer burden attributable to 44 behavioural, environmental and occupational, and metabolic risk factors. progress towards the un sustainable development goal (sdg) target 3.4 aim to reduce non-communicable disease mortality by a third between 2015 and 2030 was estimated for cancer. cancer was the second leading cause of deaths globally in 2023 after cardiovascular diseases. risk-attributable cancer deaths increased by 72·3% (57·1 to 86·8) from 1990 to 2023, whereas overall global cancer deaths increased by 74·3% (62·2 to 86·2) over the same period. cancer is a major contributor to global disease burden, with increasing numbers of cases and deaths forecasted up to 2050 and a disproportionate growth in burden in countries with scarce resources.
Exercise reduces cancer mortality rates among Chinese citizens. [SEP] while ischaemic heart disease and stroke persist as leading causes of death, there has been progress in reducing their age-standardised mortality rates globally. the global, regional, and national burden of cancer, 1990-2023, with forecasts to 2050: a systematic analysis for the global burden of disease study 2023. cancer is a leading cause of death globally. to inform global cancer-control efforts, we used the global burden of diseases, injuries, and risk factors study (gbd) 2023 framework to generate and analyse estimates of cancer burden for 47 cancer types or groupings by age, sex, and 204 countries and territories from 1990 to 2023, cancer burden attributable to selected risk factors from 1990 to 2023, and forecasted cancer burden up to 2050. we used the gbd 2023 comparative risk assessment framework to estimate cancer burden attributable to 44 behavioural, environmental and occupational, and metabolic risk factors. progress towards the un sustainable development goal (sdg) target 3.4 aim to reduce non-communicable disease mortality by a third between 2015 and 2030 was estimated for cancer. cancer was the second leading cause of deaths globally in 2023 after cardiovascular diseases. cancer is a major contributor to global disease burden, with increasing numbers of cases and deaths forecasted up to 2050 and a disproportionate growth in burden in countries with scarce resources. the decline in age-standardised mortality rates from cancer is encouraging but insufficient to meet the sdg target set for 2030. effectively and sustainably addressing cancer burden globally will require comprehensive national and international efforts that consider health systems and context in the development and implementation of cancer-control strategies across the continuum of prevention, diagnosis, and treatment.
Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is unrelated to anxiety prevalence. [SEP] 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have decreased risk for dementia. [SEP] impact of learning apoe genotype on cognitively unimpaired adults: a pre-screening cohort study of the alzheimer's prevention initiative generation study 1. the apolipoprotein e (apoe) gene is the best established genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disease in later life, with the ε4 allele conferring higher risk. the apoe gene, particularly its ε4 allele, is a significant genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disease (ad) and influences amyloid-β (aβ) pathology and cognitive decline. apoe genotype determines cell-type-specific pathological landscape of alzheimer's disease. the apolipoprotein e (apoe) gene is the strongest genetic risk modifier for alzheimer's disease (ad), with the apoe4 allele increasing risk and apoe2 decreasing it compared with the common apoe3 allele. apoe4 carriers also showed increased pro-inflammatory signatures in microglia but reduced responses to amyloid-β pathology. the apoe ɛ4 allele and age are risk factors for alzheimer's disease (ad) and contribute to decreased executive function. we aimed to investigate the effect of apolipoprotein e4 (apoe) ε4 on synaptic density in cognitively impaired (ci) participants. alzheimer's disease (ad) risk is increased in carriers of the apolipoprotein e (apoe) ε4 allele and decreased in ε2 allele carriers compared with the ε3ε3 genotype. low levels of plasma apolipoprotein e (apoe) and presence of the apoe ε4 allele are associated with an increased risk of alzheimer's disease (ad).
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for Alzheimer's disease. [SEP] the apoe4 allele significantly increases alzheimer's disease (ad) risk, often linked to brain lipid imbalance. in alzheimer's disease, carriage of the apolipoprotein e ε4 (apoe4) risk allele is linked to faster tau accumulation at lower amyloid-pet levels, thereby accelerating disease progression. impact of learning apoe genotype on cognitively unimpaired adults: a pre-screening cohort study of the alzheimer's prevention initiative generation study 1. the apolipoprotein e (apoe) gene is the best established genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disease in later life, with the ε4 allele conferring higher risk. the ε4 allele of apolipoprotein e (apoe4) is the strongest genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disease (ad), increasing ad risk about fourfold in ~ 34 million american and ~ 75 million european females. the role of apoe ε4 in modulating the relationship between non-genetic risk factors and dementia: a system review and meta-analysis. the ε4 allele of the apolipoprotein e gene (apoe ε4) is the strongest genetic risk factor for dementia. however, it remains unclear whether apoe ε4 status modulates the associations of non-genetic risk factors and dementia risk. population-based longitudinal studies were included if they reported associations of risk factors with all-cause dementia (acd) or alzheimer's disease (ad) stratified by apoe ε4 status. additionally, the subgroup analyses stratified by apoe ε4 status indicated that nine other factors may influence risk differentially between carriers and noncarriers, though the associations were not significant in meta-regression (vitamin e intake, heart failure, serum neurofilament light chain, serum testosterone, agitation, air no evidence from the current investigation suggests that apoe ε4 defines distinct etiological pathways for dementia, underscoring the promise of genotype-tailored prevention strategies.
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have longer lifetime exposure to estrogen due to an increased reproductive period. [SEP] 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have shorter lifetime exposure to estrogen due to a decreased reproductive period. [SEP] 
Fibroblast growth factor 21 protects against atherosclerosis by modulating adiponectin and SREBP2 levels. [SEP] 
Forkhead 0 (fox0) transcription factors are involved in apoptosis. [SEP] 
Forkhead 0 (fox0) transcription factors are involved in cellular differentiation. [SEP] 
FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is inhibited by reactive oxygen species (ROS). [SEP] it also inhibits autophagy via the stat3/foxo3a pathway and apoptosis by modulating bax and bcl-2 expression. modulatory effects of alpha-mangostin mediated by sirt1/3-foxo3a pathway in oxidative stress-induced neuronal cells. lanthanum chloride induces autophagy in rat hippocampus through ros-mediated jnk and akt/mtor signaling pathways. a variety of chemicals can induce oxidative stress, and a large number of reactive oxygen species (ros) can regulate the level of autophagy through multiple signaling pathways. the results showed that lacl3 impaired spatial learning and memory and avoidance conditioning in rats and induced an increase in ros levels in hippocampal nerve cells, which up-regulated p-jnk, p-c-jun, p-foxo1, p-foxo3a, beclin1 and lc3b-ii expression and down-regulated p-akt, p-mtor and p62 expression. these results indicate that la can activate the jnk/c-jun and jnk/foxos signaling pathways, inhibit the akt/mtor signaling pathway by inducing oxidative stress, and enhance autophagy in the hippocampus. hydrogen-rich water attenuates amyloid β-induced cytotoxicity through upregulation of sirt1-foxo3a by stimulation of amp-activated protein kinase in sk-n-mc cells. previous evidence suggests aβ-induced neurotoxicity is linked to the stimulation of reactive oxygen species (ros) production. the accumulation of aβ-induced ros leads to increased mitochondrial dysfunction and triggers apoptotic cell death. in addition, hrw also stimulated amp-activated protein kinase (ampk) in a sirtuin 1 (sirt1)-dependent pathway, which upregulates forkhead box protein o3a (foxo3a) downstream antioxidant response and diminishes aβ-induced mitochondrial potential loss and oxidative stress.
Foxk2 regulates autophagy genes in muscle cells and fibroblast cells. [SEP] foxk proteins repress the initiation of starvation-induced atrophy and autophagy programs. autophagy is the primary catabolic process triggered in response to starvation. although autophagic regulation within the cytosolic compartment is well established, it is becoming clear that nuclear events also regulate the induction or repression of autophagy. nevertheless, a thorough understanding of the mechanisms by which sequence-specific transcription factors modulate expression of genes required for autophagy is lacking. here, we identify foxk proteins (foxk1 and foxk2) as transcriptional repressors of autophagy in muscle cells and fibroblasts. interestingly, foxk1/2 serve to counter-balance another forkhead transcription factor, foxo3, which induces an overlapping set of autophagic and atrophic targets in muscle. foxk1/2 specifically recruits sin3a-hdac complexes to restrict acetylation of histone h4 and expression of critical autophagy genes. remarkably, mtor promotes the transcriptional activity of foxk1 by facilitating nuclear entry to specifically limit basal levels of autophagy in nutrient-rich conditions. our study highlights an ancient, conserved mechanism whereby nutritional status is interpreted by mtor to restrict autophagy by repressing essential autophagy genes through foxk-sin3-mediated transcriptional control.
G-CSF increases the expansion and infiltration of MDSCs into tumors. [SEP] administration of anti-gr1 or anti-g-csf antibody effectively depleted mdscs in vivo, markedly reducing the growth of adil-17a-transduced 4t1 tumors, and eliminating lung metastasis. mediators of inflammation-driven expansion, trafficking, and function of tumor-infiltrating mdscs. unlike parental ct26 tumors, which recruited primarily monocytic (m)-mdscs by constitutively expressing gm-csf- and ccr2-directed chemokines, il1β-transfected ct26 produced higher g-csf, multiple cxc chemokines, and vascular adhesion molecules required for mediating infiltration of pmn-mdscs with increased angiogenic and immunosuppressive properties. il1β-expressing ct26 increased angiogenic and immunosuppressive factors of tumor-infiltrating mdscs, as did ct26 tumors individually transfected with g-csf, bv8, cxcl1, or cxcl5, demonstrating that mediators downstream of il1β could also modulate mdsc functional activity. multiple factors secreted by tumor cells and tumor stromal cells are reported to be involved in promoting the expansion of mdsc. injection of tumor-conditioned medium increased the number of mdsc. we report organ- and tumor-specific expansion of mdscs, differences in their molecular and membrane phenotypes and t-cell suppressive activity. during tumor growth, significantly increased number of mdscs is observed in the pb and spleen, as well as, in infiltrating the mammary tumors. correlative studies revealed that the number of mdscs in the spleen was directly associated with granulocyte colony stimulating factor (g-csf) transcript levels in the spleen; while the number of mdscs in the tumors was directly correlated with splenic granulocyte macrophage stimulating factor (gm-csf) transcript levels, tumor volume and tumor cell number. together our results support a role for mdscs in tumor initiation and progressive, t-cell depression and loss of function provide evidence which support multiple mechanisms of mdsc expansion in a site-dependent manner.
GATA3 regulates cell cycle progression in bone marrow hematopoietic stem cells. [SEP] 
GATA3 regulates self-renewal capacity in bone marrow hematopoietic stem cells. [SEP] gata-3 regulates the self-renewal of long-term hematopoietic stem cells. the transcription factor gata-3 is expressed and required for differentiation and function throughout the t lymphocyte lineage. despite evidence it may also be expressed in multipotent hematopoietic stem cells (hscs), any role for gata-3 in these cells has remained unclear. here we found gata-3 was in the cytoplasm in quiescent long-term stem cells from steady-state bone marrow but relocated to the nucleus when hscs cycled. relocation depended on signaling via the mitogen-activated protein kinase p38 and was associated with a diminished capacity for long-term reconstitution after transfer into irradiated mice. deletion of gata3 enhanced the repopulating capacity and augmented the self-renewal of long-term hscs in cell-autonomous fashion without affecting the cell cycle. our observations position gata-3 as a regulator of the balance between self-renewal and differentiation in hscs that acts downstream of the p38 signaling pathway.
Gastric infection with Helicobacter pylori decreases risk of gastric cancer in humans. [SEP] randomized controlled trials conducted in high-risk groups have demonstrated that h. pylori eradication significantly reduces gastric cancer risk. helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) infection is a major risk factor for gastric cancer (gc), but the molecular mechanisms driving h. pylori-induced gastric carcinogenesis remain incompletely understood. differential impacts of helicobacter pylori antibody typing on gastric secretory function: a cross-sectional study based on serum biomarkers. h.pylori infection characteristically alters gastric functional serum markers in a virulence-dependent manner. helicobacter pylori infection status and evolution of gastric cancer. helicobacter pylori ( h. pylori ) is a group i carcinogen for gc, with a higher seroprevalence rate indicating a higher gc incidence. helicobacter pylori infection impairs glucose homeostasis through gut microbiota dysbiosis. epidemiological data show that helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) infection is not only the most important risk factor for gastric cancer, but is also associated with poor glycemic control in patients with diabetes. why internists should care about helicobacter pylori: recapitulating gastric cancer prevention. infection with helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) is a leading but also modifiable cause of gastric cancer.
Gastric infection with Helicobacter pylori increases risk of gastric cancer in humans. [SEP] epstein-barr virus and helicobacter pylori co-infection in gastric cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis of case-control and cross-sectional studies. gastric cancer incidence after helicobacter pylori eradication and lifestyle-related risk factors: a population-based cohort study. although helicobacter pylori (hp) eradication reduces gastric cancer (gc) risk, gc still develops in some patients after successful eradication. however, concerted efforts are being made to understand the occurrence of gastric cancer and its major risk factor, helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) infection. we conducted a case-control study of 190 gastric cancer patients recruited at the hospitals and 317 healthy community controls, integrating pcr-based genotyping of gstm1, gstt1, cyp2e1, tlr2, tlr4, tnf-α, and il-10 with detailed assessment of lifestyle, diet, and helicobacter pylori infection, alongside arms helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) infection is the principle modifiable risk factor for gastric cancer and a key driver of ethnic disparities in gastric disease within aotearoa new zealand. immune evasion of helicobacter pylori and extra-gastric cancer risk. helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) is a group 1 gastric carcinogen that plays a significant role in extra-gastric digestive system cancers. h. pylori infection has been shown to play a role in extra-gastric cancers such as, hepatocellular cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, colorectal, pancreatic, and esophageal cancers. randomized controlled trials conducted in high-risk groups have demonstrated that h. pylori eradication significantly reduces gastric cancer risk.
General exercise therapy is more effective than rotator cuff exercises in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] a future rct, with an improved recruitment strategy, will demonstrate whether the exercise programme is also effective in improving symptoms and muscle-tendon function in this population. shoulder pain is a highly prevalent complaint and disorders of the rotator cuff, including tears, are thought to be the most common cause. research to date suggests that there is the possibility of reducing the patient burden associated with post-operative immobilisation following surgery to repair the torn rotator cuff and improve clinical outcomes. exercise protocol for the treatment of rotator cuff impingement syndrome. exercise in the treatment of rotator cuff impingement: a systematic review and a synthesized evidence-based rehabilitation protocol. what is the role of exercise in the treatment of rotator cuff impingement syndrome (rcis), and what evidence-based exercises can be synthesized into a criterion-standard exercise rehabilitation protocol? the findings indicated that exercise improves outcomes of pain, strength, rom impairments, and function in patients with impingement syndrome. in 10 studies, investigators reported improvements in pain with supervised exercise, home exercise, exercise associated with manual therapy, and exercise after subacromial decompression. investigators evaluated exercise combined with manual therapy in 3 studies and demonstrated improvement in pain relief in each study and improvement in strength in 1 study. findings indicated that exercise is beneficial for reducing pain and improving function in individuals with rcis.
General exercise therapy is more effective than scapular stabilizer exercises in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] 
Genes involved in pre-mRNA splicing have a significant impact on genome stability. [SEP] dysfunction of gpl1-gih35-wdr83 complex in  pre-mrna splicing plays a key role in the regulation of gene expression. recent discoveries suggest that defects in pre-mrna splicing, resulting from the dysfunction of certain splicing factors, can impact the expression of genes crucial for genome surveillance mechanisms, including those involved in cellular response to dna damage. in this study, we analyzed how cells with a non-functional spliceosome-associated gpl1-gih35-wdr83 complex respond to dna damage. additionally, we investigated the role of this complex in regulating the splicing of factors involved in dna damage repair. our findings reveal that the deletion of any component within the gpl1-gih35-wdr83 complex leads to a significant accumulation of unspliced pre-mrnas of dna repair factors. consequently, mutant cells lacking this complex exhibit increased sensitivity to dna-damaging agents. these results highlight the importance of the gpl1-gih35-wdr83 complex in regulating the expression of dna repair factors, thereby protecting the stability of the genome following dna damage.
Genetic deficiency of mast cells leads to decreased weight gain in a mouse model of diet-induced obesity. [SEP] 
Genetic deletion of JAM-A increases gut permeability. [SEP] expression of the tight junction-associated protein junctional adhesion molecule-a (jam-a) is increased in sepsis, although the significance of this is unknown. here, we show that septic jam-a -/- mice have increased gut permeability, yet paradoxically have decreased bacteremia and systemic tnf and il-1β expression. survival is improved in jam-a-/- mice. however, intestine-specific jam-a-/- deletion does not alter mortality, suggesting that the mortality benefit conferred in mice lacking jam-a is independent of the intestine. gut neutrophil infiltration and neutrophil phagocytosis are increased in jam-a-/- mice, while septic jam-a-/- mice depleted of neutrophils lose their survival advantage. jam-a may be a therapeutic target in sepsis via immune mechanisms not related to its role in permeability. genetic deletion of myosin light chain kinase (mlck) reverses intestinal hyperpermeability and improves survival in a murine model of intra-abdominal sepsis. examination of jejunal tight junctions for potential mechanisms underlying increased leak permeability revealed that mice that received pik had increased phosphorylated mlc without alterations in occludin, zo-1, or jam-a. in contrast, worsened intestinal hyperpermeability by genetic deletion of jam-a increased enterocyte migration. the purpose of this study was to determine whether genetic deletion of mlck would alter gut barrier function and survival from sepsis.
Genomic aberrations of metastases provide information for targeted therapy. [SEP] the deeper understanding of these genetic alterations and their functional consequences led to the discovery of novel therapeutic opportunities improving clinical management of cancer patients. circulating tumor dna, ctdna) represents genetic aberrations in cancer cells, which are a potential source for diagnostic, prognostic, and predictive biomarkers. recent studies have demonstrated technical feasibility and clinical applications including detection of drug targets and resistance mutations as well as longitudinal monitoring of tumors under therapy. next generation sequencing demonstrates association between tumor suppressor gene aberrations and poor outcome in patients with cancer. these observations suggest that molecular diagnostic tests may provide important prognostic information in patients with cancer. with an expanding repertoire of targeted agents entering the clinic, screening tumours for genomic aberrations is increasingly important, as is interrogating the tumours for resistance mechanisms upon disease progression. recent development of genomic technologies has enabled survey of molecular aberrations and deregulations directly from patient specimens in a comprehensive manner. this also has provided clues to therapeutic/preventive targets that could also serve as prognostic/predictive biomarkers. structural alterations and chemical modifications of genomic dna have been shown to be useful to guide molecular targeted therapies in some cancers. our assay may be utilized to explore genomic events involved in cancer progression, e.g.
Genomic sequences involved in alternative splicing responsible for Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS) are abundant in the ''progerinonly'' allele of Lmna knock-in models. [SEP] 
Glial calcium waves influence seizures. [SEP] pilocarpine-induced acute seizure causes rapid area-specific astrogliosis and alters purinergic signaling in rat hippocampus. astrocytes are important regulators of neuronal functions and emerging evidence suggests an involvement of astrocytic purinergic signaling in the etiology of acquired epilepsy. after 3 hr of stage 5 acute seizure, hippocampal astrocytes show increased intrinsic calcium activity in stratum radiatum as well as reactive astrogliosis in the stratum lacunosum moleculare and hilus regions of the hippocampus. our results suggest that hippocampal astrocytes undergo rapid area-specific morphological and functional changes immediately after the commencement of the seizure activity and purinergic receptors upregulation is one of the earliest changes in response to seizure activity. these changes can be considered acute astrocytic responses to seizure activity which can potentially drive the epileptogenesis and can be explored further to identify astrocyte-specific targets for seizure therapy. role of astrocyte purinergic signaling in epilepsy. we will then review in more details recent evidence indicating that dysregulation of astrocyte purinergic signaling actively contributes to the appearance of abnormal neuronal activity in epilepsy. in addition, glial gap junctions help constrain excessive excitatory activity in neurons and facilitate astrocyte ca novel astrocyte targets: new avenues for the therapeutic treatment of epilepsy. here, we review recent studies that have unraveled novel and unique contributions of astrocytes to the generation and spread of convulsive and nonconvulsive seizures and epileptiform activity.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is characterized by extensive invasion, rapid growth, necrosis, and angiogenesis. [SEP] glioblastoma (gbm), which is characterised by rapid growth, cellular heterogeneity, angiogenesis, extensive invasion, hypoxia and necrosis, is the most common histological subtype of glioma in adults. microrna (mirna) dysregulation is a common feature of human cancers, including gbm. mir‑485 overexpression inhibited gbm cell proliferation, colony formation, migration and invasion; increased apoptosis in vitro; and reduced tumour growth in vivo. guanylate binding protein 1 is a novel effector of egfr-driven invasion in glioblastoma. these include glioblastoma multiforme (gbm), which is characterized by independent but interrelated features of extensive invasion into normal brain parenchyma, rapid growth, necrosis, and angiogenesis. in this study, we show that egfr activation promoted gbp1 expression in gbm cell lines through a signaling pathway involving src and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase. gbp1 was required for egfr-mediated mmp1 (matrix metalloproteinase 1) expression and glioma cell invasion in vitro. although deregulation of gbp1 expression did not affect glioma cell proliferation, overexpression of gbp1 enhanced glioma cell invasion through mmp1 induction, which required its c-terminal helical domain and was independent of its gtpase activity. gbp1 expression was high and positively correlated with egfr expression in human gbm tumors and cell lines, particularly those of the neural subtype. together, these findings establish gbp1 as a previously unknown link between egfr activity and mmp1 expression and nominate it as a novel potential therapeutic target for inhibiting gbm invasion.
Gpr124 increases BBB breakdown in mouse models of ischemic stroke. [SEP] 
Gpr124 suppresses BBB breakdown in mouse models of ischemic stroke. [SEP] 
Guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) mediate RhoA activation in response to tensional forces on fibronectin-binding integrins. [SEP] 
H.pylori-mediated gastric cancer occurs due to the accumulation of mutations in host epithelial cells. [SEP] 
HAND2 methylation is a key step in early endometrial carcinogenesis. [SEP] 
Having a main partner improves HIV outcomes. [SEP] spanish women had a lower risk of late diagnosis compared with non-spanish women, particularly when diagnosed during pregnancy or preconception care, 0.39 (95% ci: 0.18–0.87,  these findings underscore the importance of targeted strategies to promote earlier hiv detection and improve long-term health outcomes in women. people living with hiv are at increased risk for developing cancer, a leading cause of death in this population. a digital innovation for enhanced adherence counseling (eac) to improve outcomes among people living with hiv (plhiv) in mumbai, india. introduction early initiation of antiretroviral therapy (art) and adequate adherence are associated with sustained viral load (vl) suppression and effective treatment in people living with hiv (plhiv). intimate partner violence, social support, and depression among women living with hiv in wakiso district, central uganda: findings from a sequential mixed-methods study. social support significantly mediated the relationship between ipv and depression. addressing ipv, promoting social support and financial independence can enhance efforts aimed at art adherence and improving mental health outcomes among vulnerable wlhiv. empowering women: intimate partner violence and its association with unintended pregnancies, contraceptive use, and hiv infection among ugandan women: a cross-sectional population-based study in wakiso and hoima districts. hiv infection was significantly associated with longer duration of injection drug use (adjusted or (aor) 0.2; 95% ci 0.5 to 0.9) and lack of access to hiv prevention services (aor 2.8; 95% ci 1.1 to 7.8). expanding sexual health interventions within harm reduction services, including sti screening, structured counselling and safe sex education, is essential to reduce sti transmission and improve health outcomes among pwid.
Having a main partner worsens HIV outcomes. [SEP] analysis of heavy rainfall in sub-saharan africa and hiv transmission risk, hiv prevalence, and sexually transmitted infections, 2005-2017. extreme precipitation, including heavy rains and flooding, is associated with poor health outcomes mediated in part by decreases in income and food production. however, the association between heavy rains and hiv burden is unknown. to investigate the association between heavy rainfall, hiv prevalence, and hiv transmission risk over a 12-year span in sub-saharan africa. hiv, self-reported sexually transmitted infections (stis), and number of sexual partners. each year of heavy rainfall was associated with 1.14 (95% ci, 1.11-1.18) times the odds of hiv infection and 1.11 (95% ci, 1.07-1.15) times the odds of an sti in the past 12 months. there was also an association between heavy rainfall and the reported number of sexual partners (incident rate ratio, 1.12; 95% ci, 1.10-1.15). the findings of this study suggest that heavy rainfall was associated with a higher hiv burden in sub-saharan africa. the association between heavy rainfall and stis and number of sexual partners suggests that an increase in the risk of sexual transmission is a plausible mechanism for the observed findings around hiv prevalence. heavy rainfall could also worsen food insecurity, increasing the risk of transactional sex, or cause damage to public health infrastructure, reducing access to sti education, hiv testing, and treatment.
HbA1c consistently overestimates glycemic control in black individuals with Sickle cell trait (SCT). [SEP] 
Headaches are correlated with cognitive impairment. [SEP] participants with a clinical diagnosis of vestibular migraine were recruited from a tertiary headache center and assessed using a battery of ovrt-c tests administered with a portable eye-tracking system (spryson dx-100;  a substantial proportion of vm patients aged 18 to 45 demonstrated abnormal ovrt-c performance compared with normative data, most prominently in horizontal and vertical saccades (54.3 and 51.4%,  objective ovrt-c testing reveals quantifiable abnormalities in oculomotor, vestibular, and cognitive dysfunction in patients with vestibular migraine. these results indicate that migraine patients exhibit impaired cortical inhibitory function and abnormal information processing throughout the entire pathway, from early sensory gating to late cognitive anticipation. this electrophysiological profile provides an objective, quantitative neurobiological marker for migraine-related cognitive impairment, holding potential value for clinical diagnosis and monitoring. migraine with aura is clinically linked to cognitive impairment, yet sex differences and underlying mechanisms are unclear. together, these results offer a novel perspective for investigating sex differences in migraine with aura and highlight the dual, dynamic influence of csd on brain cognitive function. headache and fibromyalgia are common chronic pain disorders, often linked to cognitive, emotional, and social impairments. headache participants reported moderate pain intensity (mean nrs=5.5, sd=2.3), with bpi intensity significantly correlated with general activity (r=.621, p=.003), mood (r=.730, p=.001), and self-efficacy (r=.515, p=.017). while both conditions are linked to psychosocial impairment, fibromyalgia was associated with higher pain intensity and stronger correlations with psychological dysfunction, while chronic headache showed more selective associations, particularly involving perceived interference with mood and ruminative thinking. subjective cognitive complaints (scc) can precede cognitive decline and are associated with demographic, exposure, lifestyle, and psychological factors. scc may also be a marker of cognitive decline and neurodegeneration.
Healthy volunteers exhibit rapid and transient increase of cellular ATP after being bolus-injected with fructose. [SEP] 
Helicobacter pylori-induced aberrant NF-kB-dependent expression of activation-induced cytidine deaminase contributes to the mutagenesis of host DNA. [SEP] 
Helminths interfere with immune system control of coinfections by microbial pathogens 16. [SEP] 
High levels of CRP lead to a higher risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). [SEP] a. kellum p266 - procalcitonin as predictor of primary graft dysfunction and mortality in post-lung transplantation c. mazo torre, j. riera, s. ramirez, b. borgatta, l. lagunes, j. rello p267 - new molecular biomarkers of acute respiratory distress syndrome in abdominal sepsis a. k. kuzovlev, v. moroz, a. goloubev, s. polovnikov, s. nenchuk p268 - tight junction’s proteins claudin -5 and regulation by tnf in experimental murine lung injury model of ali/ards v. karavana, c. glynos, a. asimakos, k. pappas, c. vrettou, m. magkou, e. ischaki, g. stathopoulos, s. zakynthinos p269 - cell counts in endobronchial aspirate to assess airway inflammation in ards patients: a pilot study s. spadaro, i. kozhevnikova, f. dalla corte, s. grasso, p. casolari, g. caramori, c. volta p270 - epidemiological and clinical profile of patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome in the surgical intensive care unit surgical, hospital jra, antananarivo t. andrianjafiarinoa, t. randriamandrato, t. rajaonera p271 - effect of high peep after recruitment maneuver on right ventricular function in ards. decreased cd34+ cell number is correlated with cardiac dysfunction in patients with acute exacerbation of copd. acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (aecopd) is associated with a higher risk of cardiovascular disease (cvd). for our study, 27 patients with aecopd (gold stage iii, iv), 26 with stable copd (gold stage iii, iv), and 24 healthy controls were enrolled. the circulating cd34+ cell count was decreased and correlated with cardiac dysfunction in aecopd patients, and thus may account for the increased cardiovascular risk in this population. chronic comorbid diseases affect health outcomes in copd, in fact, patients with copd mainly die of non-respiratory disorders such as cardiovascular disease. a better understanding of the origin and consequences of systemic and local inflammation, and of potential therapies, will most likely lead to better care of patients with copd. we compared 64 consecutive, consenting smoker patients with copd and ms (mean age: 62.7 +/- 0.7 years) with this serum inflammatory profile (hscrp: 1.9 +/- 0.01 mg/dl, tnf-alpha: 6,4 +/- 0.1 pg/ml, adiponectin: 4.7 +/- 0.01 mg/l) versus 69 copd smoker patients matched for age (mean age 61.4 +/- 0.4 years) with following serum inflammatory cytokine (crp: 0.9 +/- 0.01 mg/dl, tnf-alpha: 3.9 pg/ml +/- 0.01, adiponectin: 9.3 +/- 0.01 mg/l). serum tnf-alpha and high-sensitivity crp levels in patients with copd and ms were significantly higher (p < 0.05) than those of copd alone. it is possible that this association between copd and ms with a specific inflammatory pattern (high serum levels of crp and tnf-a but with low plasma levels of adiponectin) to explain the high rate of death adjudicated as due to cardiovascular causes.
Higher plasma levels of I-carnitine, when associated with trimethylamine N-oxide, are negatively correlated with cardiovascular events in humans. [SEP] 
Higher plasma levels of I-carnitine, when associated with trimethylamine N-oxide, are positively correlated with cardiovascular events in humans. [SEP] 
Human embryonic stem cells give rise to cell types from all three embryonic germ layers. [SEP] the naïve ipsc line was capable of differentiating into derivatives of the three primary germ layers, as well as producing trophoblast derivatives. culturing naïve ipscs in low-adhesion conditions resulted in the spontaneous formation of three-dimensional structures (blastoids) resembling early human blastocysts. human pluripotent stem cells (hpscs) hold immense promise for cell replacement therapies due to their capacity to give rise to derivatives of the three embryonic germ layers and their ability to divide indefinitely in culture. recently, several studies using cultures of human embryos together with single-cell rna-seq analyses have revealed differences between humans and mice, necessitating the study of human embryos the established line displays typical human primed ipsc morphology and expression of pluripotency-associated markers, normal karyotype without snp array-detectable copy number variations and can give rise to derivatives of all three embryonic germ layers. human pluripotent stem cells (hpscs) are capable of unlimited proliferation and can undergo differentiation to give rise to cells and tissues of the three primary germ layers. both cell types were cultured in a 3d or spheroid format. grew human stem cells in the lab as three-dimensional structures called organoids, and used chemical signals similar to the ones produced in the embryo during development to make the cells form somites. both naive and primed state pscs can give rise to tissues of all the three germ layers in vitro but differ in their potential to generate germline chimera in vivo. they can also form embryoid bodies and teratomas that give rise to cells/tissues from three embryonic germ layers.
Human embryonic stem cells give rise to cell types from the outer embryonic germ layer, but not the other two layers. [SEP] 
Human embryonic stem cells have the capacity to give rise to differentiated progeny representative of all three embryonic germ layers. [SEP] 
Hypocretin neurones suppress panicprone state in rats. [SEP] 
Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is unrelated to energy balance. [SEP] leptin enhances nr2b-mediated n-methyl-d-aspartate responses via a mitogen-activated protein kinase-dependent process in cerebellar granule cells. it is well documented that the hormone leptin regulates energy balance via its actions in the hypothalamus. however, evidence is accumulating that leptin plays a key role in numerous cns functions. indeed, leptin receptors are expressed in many extrahypothalamic brain regions, with high levels found in the hippocampus and cerebellum. in the hippocampus leptin has been shown to facilitate n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor function and modulate synaptic plasticity. a role for leptin in cerebellar function is also indicated as leptin-deficient rodents display reduced mobility that is unrelated to obesity. here we show that leptin receptor immunolabeling can be detected in cultured cerebellar granule cells, being expressed at the somatic plasma membrane and also concentrated at synapses. furthermore, leptin facilitated nr2b n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor-mediated ca2+ influx in cerebellar granule cells via a mitogen-activated protein kinase-dependent pathway. these findings provide the first direct evidence for a cellular action of leptin in cerebellar neurons. in addition, given that n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor activity in the cerebellum is crucial for normal locomotor function, these data also have important implications for the potential role of leptin in the control of movement.
IFI16 impedes STING phosphorylation and translocation, resulting in reduced activation of STING. [SEP] 
IL-10 production by monocytes inhibits CD4 + T cell response. [SEP] we further demonstrated that the beneficial effects of fctrs depended on il-10 production, which inhibited pathogenic myofibroblast differentiation by suppressing smad2/3-dependent signaling. in addition, il-10 secretion by these engineered tregs promoted the polarization of inflammatory monocytes into reparative m2 macrophages and resolved excessive inflammatory responses. signalling through this receptor increases interleukin-10 (il-10) and tumour necrosis factor alpha (tnfα) production by monocyte-derived dendritic cells (modcs), which promotes a t helper 2 (th2) or type 1 regulatory t-cell (tr1) response. il-10 indirectly modulates functional activity of cd4 expansion of cd4 a mab to sirpα downregulates the priming of naive cd4 + t cell in primary immune thrombocytopenia. in this study, we show that there was a low expression state of sirpα on the surface of monocytes. the proliferation of, and production of il-2, by cd4 + t cells from itp patients were inhibited, the treg cell numbers and the production of il-10 pairs were upregulated, and the production of tgf-β not was inhibited, by a mab to sirpα. moreover, a mab to sirpα, the expression of hla-dr and cd86 were markedly inhibited and the expression of cd80 was slightly upregulated, on the surface of cd14 + monocytes from itp patients as compared with healthy subjects. these results suggest that sirpα on monocytes is essential for the priming of naive t cells and the development of itp. levels of il-10 in the lungs were also increased in treated animals.
IL-6 signaling plays a major role in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. [SEP] 
IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 are scarce in the duodenal mucosa of celiac disease patients when the disease is active. [SEP] 
Immune responses in immune cells are geographically segregated. [SEP] the igg response pattern of tb patients differs from that of healthy individuals, with the molecular complexity of the antigens influencing the strength of recognition. south american individuals with or without tb exhibited a generally stronger serum igg response to the tested m. tuberculosis antigens compared to their african counterparts. individual m. tuberculosis peptide targets were defined, segregating patients with tb from africa versus those from south america. these data reveal the heterogeneity of epitope-dependent humoral immune responses in tb patients, partly due to geographical setting. the immune mechanisms responsible for these different types of functional immunity remain to be defined. in addition, effector cell populations in the tissues surrounding the parasites, are not typical, inferring the ostertagia has evolved means to suppress or evade protective immune mechanisms. with the other polymorphisms, either no association is found (il-1ra, cr-1, mbp), or the results are geographically heterogeneous (icam-1, hla-b53), or contradictory (inos2). with the other polymorphisms, either no association is found (il-1ra, cr-1, mbp), or results are geographically heterogeneous (icam-1, hla-b53), or contradictory (inos2). total accumulation of antigen-specific interleukin (il)-4 and il-5 in 48 h peripheral blood mononuclear cell supernatants was not significantly different between groups. however, when cytokine kinetics were examined, responses segregated according to infection status.
Improvements in OER catalysts show stable activity over several hundred hours. [SEP] 
In British Men, haplogroup I decreases risk of cardiovascular disease. [SEP] 
In British Men, haplogroup I increases risk of cardiovascular disease by 50%. [SEP] male-specific region of the y chromosome and cardiovascular risk: phylogenetic analysis and gene expression studies. haplogroup i of male-specific region of the human y chromosome is associated with 50% increased risk of coronary artery disease. coronary artery disease predisposing haplogroup i of the y chromosome is associated with downregulation of uty and prky genes in macrophages but not with conventional cardiovascular risk factors. inheritance of coronary artery disease in men: an analysis of the role of the y chromosome. a sexual dimorphism exists in the incidence and prevalence of coronary artery disease--men are more commonly affected than are age-matched women. we then examined associations between common y chromosome haplogroups and the risk of coronary artery disease in cross-sectional bhf-fhs and prospective woscops. carriers of haplogroup i had about a 50% higher age-adjusted risk of coronary artery disease than did men with other y chromosome lineages in bhf-fhs (odds ratio 1·75, 95% ci 1·20-2·54, p=0·004), woscops (1·45, 1·08-1·95, p=0·012), and joint analysis of both populations (1·56, 1·24-1·97, p=0·0002). the association between haplogroup i and increased risk of coronary artery disease was independent of traditional cardiovascular and socioeconomic risk factors. analysis of macrophage transcriptome in the cardiogenics study revealed that 19 molecular pathways showing strong differential expression between men with haplogroup i and other lineages of the y chromosome were interconnected by common genes related to inflammation and immunity, and that some of them have a strong relevance to atherosclerosis. the human y chromosome is associated with risk of coronary artery disease in men of european ancestry, possibly through interactions of immunity and inflammation.
In S. cerevisiae, the absence of RNA surveillance pathways causes sensitivity to high iron conditions. [SEP] 
In S. cerevisiae, the absence of RNA surveillance pathways reduces sensitivity to high iron conditions. [SEP] 
In a naive state, blocking Wingless-Int-1 secretion from mouse embryonic stem cells inhibits self-renewal of the mouse embryonic stem cells. [SEP] 
In breast cancer, the loss of myoepithelial cells promotes the transition of ductal carcinoma in situ to invasive carcinoma. [SEP] the 3d co-culture model demonstrated an inhibition of the expression of genes involved in apoptosis ( reciprocal interactions between the tumoroid and its microenvironment, particularly in obesity, led to transcriptomic changes in adipocytes and macrophages, may participate in breast cancer progression while disrupting the integrity of the mec layer. the adipose microenvironment dysregulates the mammary myoepithelial cells and could participate to the progression of breast cancer. breast cancer is the most common cancer among women worldwide. among the cell types present in the breast, myoepithelial cells (mecs), located at the interface of the epithelial cells and the stroma, are considered "tumor suppressor" cells. during the transition from ductal carcinoma regulation of in situ to invasive breast carcinoma transition. the transition of ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) to invasive carcinoma is a poorly understood key event in breast tumor progression. here, we analyzed the role of myoepithelial cells and fibroblasts in the progression of in situ carcinomas using a model of human dcis and primary breast tumors. progression to invasion was promoted by fibroblasts and inhibited by normal myoepithelial cells. molecular profiles of isolated luminal epithelial and myoepithelial cells identified an intricate interaction network involving tgfbeta, hedgehog, cell adhesion, and p63 required for myoepithelial cell differentiation, the elimination of which resulted in loss of myoepithelial cells and progression to invasion.
In breast cancer, the loss of myoepithelial cells slows the transition of ductal carcinoma in situ to invasive carcinoma. [SEP] 
In melanoma, anti-CTLA-4 treatment reinvigorates exhausted PD-1+Eomes+CD8 T cells. [SEP] 
In patients with congenital heart defects, β-blockers significantly improve clinical heart failure outcomes. [SEP] improved surgical outcomes in adults with congenital heart disease and decompensated heart failure: the role of perioperative medical optimization. background decompensated heart failure (hf) is recognized as a significant prognostic factor for unfavorable outcomes in both the general population and adults with congenital heart diseases (achd). effect of carvedilol on heart failure in patients with a functionally univentricular heart. the effect of carvedilol on heart failure (hf) in patients with a functionally univentricular heart (uvh) remains unclear. efficacy and safety of carvedilol for heart failure in children and patients with congenital heart disease. carvedilol may be effective in treating heart failure in children due to ischemia, myocardial disease, and complicated by tachyarrhythmia. administration of propranolol and cibenzoline improved ventricular outflow tract obstruction, leading to catch-up growth. although high dose captopril was not evaluated in this study, when compared to patients on low captopril dosages, infants who received propranolol treatment showed improvement in heart failure scores, shorter lengths of hospital stay, lower plasma renin activities and better diastolic ventricular functions. a cohort study of childhood hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: improved survival following high-dose beta-adrenoceptor antagonist treatment. high-dose beta-blocker therapy improves survival in childhood hcm.
In pediatric tissue, most T cells are naive T cell emigrants from the thymus. [SEP] 
In rhesus macaques, daily subcutaneous injections of tenofovir protects against rectally transmitted simian-human immunodeficiency virus. [SEP] 
In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. [SEP] 
Incidence of 10/66 dementia is higher than the incidence of DSM-IV dementia. [SEP] 
Incidence of 10/66 dementia is lower than the incidence of DSM-IV dementia. [SEP] 
Incidence of heart failure increased by 10% in women since 1979. [SEP] patients with heart failure have an increased risk of incident cancer. among men, there was excess overall mortality, mainly due to increased mortality from ischaemic heart disease. long-term trends in the incidence of heart failure after myocardial infarction. we assessed the incidence rates of heart failure and of death without heart failure in each of 3 decades (1970 to 1979, 1980 to 1989, and 1990 to 1999). the 30-day incidence of heart failure after mi rose from 10% in 1970 to 1979 to 23.1% in 1990 to 1999 (p for trend 0.003), whereas 30-day mortality after mi declined from 12.2% (1970 to 1979) to 4.1% (1990 to 1999). the 5-year incidence of heart failure after mi rose from 27.6% in 1970 to 1979 to 31.9% in 1990 to 1999 (p for trend 0.02), whereas 5-year mortality after mi declined from 41.1% (1970 to 1979) to 17.3% (1990 to 1999). in multivariable analyses, compared with the period 1970 to 1979, we observed higher 30-day (risk ratio 2.05, 95% confidence interval 1.25 to 3.36) and 5-year (risk ratio 1.74, 95% confidence interval 1.07 to 2.84) risks of heart failure in the decade 1990 to 1999. in the present community-based sample, we observed an increase in the incidence of heart failure in recent decades that paralleled the decrease in mortality after mi. in multivariable analyses controlling for established risk factors for chf including the occurrence of myocardial infarction (recognized or unrecognized) during follow-up, plasma homocysteine levels higher than the sex-specific median value were associated with an adjusted hazards ratio for heart failure of 1.93 in women (95% confidence interval, 1.19-3.14) and 1.84 in men (95% confidence interval, 1.06-3.17). hypertension, congestive heart failure, and valvular heart disease are frequently seen among hospital inpatients in the united republic of tanzania.
Incidence of sepsis has fallen substantially from 2009 to 2014. [SEP] 
Including pharmacists in rounding teams does not alter the incidence of adverse drug events (ADEs). [SEP] clinical pharmacists are integral members of multidisciplinary teams in intensive care units (icus); however, their presence remains uncommon in french icus. key pharmacist services included participation in rounds, managing adverse drug events, and updating pharmacotherapy protocols. to improve medication safety for this patient population, the university hospital of bern's department of geriatrics hosts clinical pharmacists on its ward rounds as part of an interprofessional collaboration project called pharmvisit. this project emphasised how including clinical pharmacists in interprofessional ward round teams enabled the integration and consideration of more viewpoints on different aspects of drug therapies, facilitating a more critical debate on medication therapy decisions. a realist review of pharmacists' integration and participation in interprofessional ward rounds: what works, for whom, why and in what circumstances. pharmacists' participation in interprofessional ward rounds has been shown to reduce adverse drug events, improve medication appropriateness and communication about medicines. however, pharmacists do not routinely participate in interprofessional ward rounds with reports of participation varying from 10 % to 39 %. knowledge about how, under what circumstances and why integration of pharmacists into interprofessional ward round teams can be successfully achieved remains limited. introduction of the pharmacist to team members by the consultant can initiate building trust amongst all members of the interprofessional ward round team. the causal relationships established between the contexts and mechanisms favouring positive outcomes provides guidance to successful integration of pharmacists in interprofessional ward rounds.
Including pharmacists in rounding teams reduces the incidence of adverse drug events (ADEs). [SEP] 
Increased LDL receptors plays a role in the reduction of plasma Lp(a). [SEP] 
Increased diastolic blood pressure (DBP) is associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm. [SEP] association analysis of blood pressure with incident risks for thoracic and abdominal aortic aneurysms: an observational study of the uk biobank cohort. the specific relationship between different blood pressure measures and the risk of aortic aneurysms (aa) remains unclear. this study aimed to investigate the association between various blood pressure measures or subtypes of hypertension and the risk of aa. using data from the uk biobank study, we performed multivariable cox regression analysis to estimate hrs for baseline systolic blood pressure (sbp), diastolic blood pressure (dbp) and pulse pressure (pp) with risk of aa. the associations of isolated systolic hypertension, isolated diastolic and combined systolic-diastolic hypertension for aa were also assessed. the association between dbp and aa (per-sd hr=1.24, 95% ci 1.15 to 1.33) was significant when dbp reached 80 mm hg and higher. elevated dbp and reduced pp, but not sbp, were independently associated with a higher risk of incident aa, highlighting their potential to refine clinical risk stratification. blood pressure, hypertension and the risk of abdominal aortic aneurysms: a systematic review and meta-analysis of cohort studies. abdominal aortic aneurysms (aaa) are fatal in 80% of the cases when ruptured. our aim was to conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis of cohort studies of the association between blood pressure, hypertension and aaa to clarify the strength and shape of these associations.
Increased microtubule acetylation exacerbates LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. [SEP] 
Increased microtubule acetylation repairs interference of axonal transport caused by LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutations. [SEP] 
Increased microtubule acetylation worsens interference of axonal transport caused by LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutations. [SEP] 
Individuals with Alzheimers who participate in six months of physical activity improve cognitive function for up to 18 months. [SEP] 
Induced hepatic stem cells possess the potential to differentiate into cholangiocytic cells. [SEP] although hepatic, intrahepatic biliary, and pancreatic 2d/3d models have been successfully established from pluripotent stem cells (pscs), in vitro generation of extrahepatic biliary cells remains a major challenge, due to the absence of developmental cues. these stem cells could be expanded in vitro and have the potential of differentiating into hepatocytes, cholangiocytes, or pancreatic cells. since hepatic stem cells (hepscs) possess self-renewal and bipotency with the capacity to differentiate into both hepatocytes and cholangiocytes, they have therapeutic potential for treating liver disease. ihepscs-derived cholangiocyte-like cells (ihepsc-clcs) expressed cholangiocyte-specific markers and formed cysts and tubule-like structures with apical-basal polarity and secretory function in three-dimensional culture condition. directed differentiation of human stem cells including induced pluripotent stem cells into hepatic cells potentially leads to acquired susceptibility to hepatitis c virus (hcv) infection. the diversity and plasticity of adult hepatic progenitor cells and their niche. in recent studies, more evidence has been shown that hepatic cells such as hepatocytes, cholangiocytes or myofibroblasts can be induced to be oval cell-like state through transitions under some circumstance, those transitional cell types as potential liver-resident progenitor cells play important roles in liver pathophysiology. reprogramming fibroblasts into bipotential hepatic stem cells by defined factors. ihepscs can be stably expanded in vitro and possess the potential of bidirectional differentiation into both hepatocytic and cholangiocytic lineages. lineage conversion into bipotential expandable ihepscs provides a strategy to enable efficient derivation of both hepatocytes and cholangiocytes for use in disease modeling and tissue engineering.
Induced hepatic stem cells possess the potential to differentiate into hepatocytic cells. [SEP] human induced pluripotent stem cells (hipscs) possess broad differentiation potential; however, efficient maturation into functional hepatocytes remains challenging, in part because conventional differentiation strategies rely on 2d culture or partially defined 3d systems that fail to recapitulate key developmental microenvironmental cues. using a shear-thinning, self-healing hydrogel configuration optimized for suspension culture, we produced large quantities of lc-hipscs and directed their differentiation into pepgel-derived hipsc-derived hepatocyte-like cells (pg-hihs). preclinical efficacy and safety evaluation of human embryonic stem cell-derived functional hepatocytes for a clinical trial in acute liver failure. re-maturation of canine chemically-induced hepatic progenitor cells toward biliary epithelial cells. this study aimed to evaluate the differentiation potential of canine hepatic progenitor cells (chpcs) derived from cryopreserved hepatocytes (cheps). the survival, liver-specific functions, differentiation level and regenerative potential of the implanted hepatocyte-like cells in this ectopic liver system were evaluated, together with the vascularization status and therapeutic potential of the engineered hepatic tissue. we demonstrated that these hepatic grafts could survive and possess hepatocyte specific function in this ectopic liver system but could also efficiently anastomose with host vascular networks. furthermore, we found that hepatocyte-like cells within grafts expanded more than 9-fold over the course of 4 weeks in immunocompetent rats with injured livers. these stem cells could be expanded in vitro and have the potential of differentiating into hepatocytes, cholangiocytes, or pancreatic cells. furthermore, stem cells isolated from these organs could be more susceptible to differentiate into mature liver cells after transplantation with respect to stem cells isolated from organs or tissues with a different embryological origin.
Induction of urokinase receptor signaling in podocytes causes foot process effacement and proteinuria. [SEP] rapamycin promotes podocyte migration through the up-regulation of urokinase receptor. podocyte damage occurs commonly in rapamycin-related proteinuria. the vascular endothelial growth factor system has been suggested to be implicated in mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitor-associated proteinuria. however, induction of urokinase receptor (upar) signaling in podocytes leads to foot process effacement and urinary protein. in this study, we assessed the role of upar in primary cultured podocytes with rapamycin treatment. the up-regulation of upar in podocytes was confirmed by immunofluorescence staining, real-time polymerase chain reaction (1.8 ± 0.3-fold increase of relative quantification; p < .01) and western blot analysis. this finding provides a new mechanism of rapamycin-associated proteinuria. it also suggests that pharmacologic inhibition of upar signaling cascade may have therapeutic potential in the setting of rapamycin-related proteinuria. lupus nephritis (ln) is usually associated with widespread effacement of the podocytes' foot processes leading to proteinuria. induction of urokinase receptor (upar) signaling in podocytes leads to foot process effacement and urinary protein loss via promoting podocytes' motility and kidney permeability in the glomerulus.
Inhibiting HDAC6 increases survival of mice with ARID1A mutated tumors. [SEP] 
Inhibiting focal adhesion formation enables cells to convert mechanical strain into eventual scarring. [SEP] 
Inhibiting focal adhesion formation increases the rate at which cells convert mechanical strain into inflammation and fibrosis. [SEP] 
Inhibiting glucose-6-phospate dehydrogenase improves lipogenesis by deactivating LKB1-AMPK signaling. [SEP] 
Inside the body, falciparum parasites reproduce asexually. [SEP] 
Insulin effects appetite via ventral tegmental neurons. [SEP] dopamine neuron activity evoked by sucrose and sucrose-predictive cues is augmented by peripheral and central manipulations of glucose availability. food deprivation drives eating through multiple signals and circuits. decreased glucose availability (i.e., cytoglucopenia) drives eating and also increases the value of sucrose. ventral tegmental area (vta) dopamine neurons (dans) contribute to the evaluation of taste stimuli, but their role in integrating glucoprivic signals remains unknown. in ad libitum fed rats, intraoral sucrose evoked a phasic increase in dan activity. to manipulate glucose availability, we administered (intraperitoneal, lateral or fourth ventricular) the antiglycolytic agent 5-thio-d-glucose (5tg), which significantly augmented the phasic dan activity to sucrose. 5tg failed to alter dan activity to water or saccharin, suggesting the response was selective for caloric stimuli. as 5tg also increases blood glucose, in a separate study, we used peripheral insulin, which stimulates eating, to decrease blood glucose-which was associated with increased dan activity to intraoral sucrose. together, the studies point to central glucose availability as a key modulator of phasic dan activity to food and food-cues. as glucose sensing neurons are known to populate the hypothalamus and brainstem, results suggest differential modulation of cue-evoked and sucrose-evoked dan activity.
Intake of folic acid (FA) and vitamin B6 (VB6) increases levels of homocysteine. [SEP] 
Intake of folic acid (FA) and vitamin B6 (VB6) reduces levels of homocysteine. [SEP] 
Integrated care is ineffective at tackling multiple comorbidities. [SEP] 
Integrated care is successful at tackling multiple comorbidities. [SEP] 
Interleukin-18 plays an important role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. [SEP] we therefore investigated the direct role of tfh cells and the role of il18 in tfh differentiation in atherosclerosis. deletion of interleukin-18 attenuates abdominal aortic aneurysm formation. interleukin (il)-18 plays a crucial role in atherosclerotic plaque destabilization and is a strong predictor of cardiovascular death. theoretical studies on the engagement of interleukin 18 in the immuno-inflammatory processes underlying atherosclerosis. therefore, in order to investigate il-18 contribution to the immuno-inflammatory processes underlying atherosclerosis, a systems approach has been used in our studies. interleukin-18: a regulator of cancer and autoimmune diseases. the diverse biological activity of il-18 on t-cell subsets and other immune cells has made this cytokine a good target for investigating its role in various inflammatory-based diseases. in recent years, the biology, genetics, and pathological role of il-18 have been studied in a number of diseases. in this article, we aimed to present an updated review on these aspects regarding the contribution of il-18 to important diseases such as cancer, autoimmunity, and inflammatory-mediated conditions including allergic diseases, metabolic syndrome, and atherosclerosis. interleukin-18 is a proinflammatory cytokine that plays an important role in vascular pathologies.
Intramembrane cleavage by signal peptide peptidase aids in the degradation of proteins with a complex membrane orientation. [SEP] 
JMJD6 catalyzes the hydroxylation of C-terminal lysine and supresses transcriptional activity. [SEP] 
JMJD6 slows the hydroxylation of C-terminal lysine [SEP] 
KLF4 is necessary for VSMCs to gain genetic characteristics of other cell types within atherosclerotic lesions. [SEP] 
KRT17 modulates the expression of the transcriptional regulator AIRE in diseased epithelia. [SEP] 
Kir7.1 modulates channel activity by the G protein-coupled melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. [SEP] 
Klf2 is important for proper myeloid cell function. [SEP] 
Klf4 is important for proper myeloid cell differentiation. [SEP] skeletal site-specific variations in myeloid cells: insights from single-cell rna sequencing of the mandible and femur. to understand differences that exist between the cell populations in different skeletal sites, we performed an unbiased genetic survey via single-cell rna sequencing of cd11b+ myeloid cells from mandibular- and femur-derived bone marrow of 2-mo-old c57bl/6 mice. our results reveal transcriptomic evidence that suggests a uniquely inflammatory genetic profile of the mandibular-derived cd11b+ cells. the monocyte cell population found within the cd11b+ cells analyzed by scrna-seq expressed
Klf4 is not required for proper myeloid cell differentiation. [SEP] the mirna targets of the transcription factor klf4 were predicted using mirdb v6.0, and the mirna-tf-gene networks were constructed using jaspar, string, and cytoscape. klf4 acts as a key regulator in gio, integrating multiple mirnas and transcription factors to influence osteoblast function and bone remodeling. rna sequencing revealed klf4 was significantly downregulated, and differentially expressed genes (degs) were enriched in inflammatory pathways. klf4 negatively correlated with core genes (gsk3b, mlh1, prkaca, vdac1, wnt7b) in pathways like wnt signaling pathway. the gene expression profile revealed 2-fold increase in the expression of klf4 in sw480 cells, with increase to about 22-fold in dld-1 cells. notably, ctnnb1 was downregulated than klf4 in a dose dependent manner, potentially leading to antitumorigenic and anti-proliferative properties of the combinatorial drug. microscopic analysis confirmed the upregulation of klf4 in zeb treatment cells leading to dna methylation. finally, single cell image analysis has shown the reduced expression of both klf4 and ctnnb1. mechanistic interrogation reveals that klf4 overexpression robustly supports punicalagin-mediated restitution of glycoprotein synthesis and barrier-associated protein expression subsequent to etec insult, whereas klf4 silencing compromises these restorative effects in ipec-j2 cells. collectively, these data position klf4 as a pivotal regulator underpinning the beneficial effects of punicalagin on mucin production and epithelial junctional integrity during etec infection, thereby substantiating the mechanistic rationale for leveraging punicalagin as a targeted intervention in the management of etec-induced enteric disease.
Knockout proximal tubule-specific deletion of the BMP receptor Alk3 causes epithelial damage. [SEP] 
Knockout proximal tubule-specific deletion of the BMP receptor Alk3 causes fibrosis. [SEP] 
LDL cholesterol has a causal role in the development of cardiovascular disease. [SEP] 
Lack of FGF21 in mice increases life expectancy. [SEP] 
Lack of FGF21 in mice leads to atherosclerotic plaque formation. [SEP] 
Lack of FGF21 in mice leads to reduced lifespan. [SEP] 
Lack of FGF21 in mice slows the rate of atherosclerotic plaque formation. [SEP] 
Lice attenuated SIV vaccines induce a stronger antigen-specific T cell response in lymph node cells. [SEP] 
Long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids supplementation is associated with lower rates of atopic eczema at 1 year. [SEP] 
Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with high methylation levels across species. [SEP] 
Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil polarization by regulating membrane raft functions. [SEP] 
Ly6C hi monocytes have a higher inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. [SEP] the effects of cd146±mscs on raw264.7 phagocytosis and lps-stimulated polarization were studied using a co-culture protocol. cd146±mscs were injected into lps-induced sepsis mice by tail vein. in vitro, cd146+mscs could significantly increase the proportion of treg cells. co-culture with cd146+mscs increase the phagocytic rate of raw264.7. cd146+mscs regulate m2-type macrophages production more rapidly. cd146+mscs decreased no production and increased arg1 expression. cd146+mscs secreted higher level of il15,ifnγ, vegf and lower level of il1β, il8 under lps stimuli. in vivo, the level of il10 at 24h and cxcl1, ifnγ at 12h in cd146+mscs group was the highest. cd146+mscs treatment enhances the phagocytic capacity of peritoneal macrophages. cd146+mscs also increases the ratios of cd11b+ly6c compared with cd146-mscs, cd146+mscs can accelerate the end of the inflammatory response and have robust anti-inflammatory effects, by increasing the treg cells, promoting macrophage phagocytosis, enhancing the reparative macrophage, secreting more vegf, etc.
MEK inhibitors are effective treatments in RAS-driven mouse models of cancer. [SEP] antitumor activity of cdk4/6 and mek inhibitors was measured in mpnst cell lines, patient-derived xenografts (pdx), and de novo mouse mpnsts, with the latter used to determine anti-pd-l1 response. in immune-deficient mice, dual cdk4/6-mek inhibition slowed tumor growth in 4 of 5 mpnst pdxs. mek inhibition (meki) is proposed to enhance antitumor immunity but has demonstrated mixed results as an immunomodulatory strategy in human clinical trials. here we modeled tumor-specific meki through crispr/cas-mediated genome editing of tumor cells [mek1 knockout (ko)] and pharmacologic meki with cobimetinib in a ras-driven model of colorectal cancer. inhibition of the extracellular signal-regulated kinases erk1 and erk2 (erk1/2) offers a promising therapeutic strategy in cancers harboring activated ras/raf/mek/erk signaling pathways. cells expressing nras and setbp1 are sensitive to inhibitors of the mapk pathway, and treatment with the mek inhibitor trametinib conferred a survival benefit in a mouse model of nras/setbp1-mutant disease. to devise potential combination therapeutic strategies, we identified actionable alterations in signaling that underlie adaptive and acquired resistance to mek inhibitor (meki). mek inhibition suppresses b regulatory cells and augments anti-tumor immunity. mitogen-activated protein kinase (mapk) kinase (mek) is an integral component of the ras pathway and a therapeutic target in ras-driven cancers. although tumor responses to mek inhibition are rarely durable, mek inhibitors have shown substantial activity and durable tumor regressions when combined with systemic immunotherapies in preclinical models of ras-driven tumors.
MFGE8 regulates fat absorption by binding to av-Beta3 and av-Beta5 integrins. [SEP] 
MICAL redox enzymes regulate actin dynamics in many cell types. [SEP] mical-mediated oxidation of actin and its effects on cytoskeletal and cellular dynamics. actin and its dynamic structural remodelings are involved in multiple cellular functions, including maintaining cell shape and integrity, cytokinesis, motility, navigation, and muscle contraction. many actin-binding proteins regulate the cytoskeleton to facilitate these functions. recently, actin's post-translational modifications (ptms) and their importance to actin functions have gained increasing recognition. the mical family of proteins has emerged as important actin regulatory oxidation-reduction (redox) enzymes, influencing actin's properties both oxidation and reduction of actin: origin, impact in vitro and functional consequences in vivo. actin is among the most abundant proteins in eukaryotic cells and assembles into dynamic filamentous networks regulated by many actin binding proteins. the actin cytoskeleton must be finely tuned, both in space and time, to fulfill key cellular functions such as cell division, cell shape changes, phagocytosis and cell migration. while actin oxidation by reactive oxygen species (ros) at non-physiological levels are known for long to impact on actin polymerization and on the cellular actin cytoskeleton, growing evidence shows that direct and reversible oxidation/reduction of specific actin amino acids plays an important and physiological role in regulating the actin cytoskeleton. we show that the regulated balance of oxidation and reduction of key actin amino acid residues contributes to the control of actin filament polymerization and disassembly at the subcellular scale and highlight how improper redox modifications of actin can lead to pathological conditions.
MICAL redox enzymes regulate actin dynamics. [SEP] actin isoform composition and binding factors fine-tune regulatory impact of mical enzymes. filamentous actin acts as a substrate of mical enzymes, as well as an activator of their nadph oxidase activity, which leads to hydrogen peroxide generation. mical-mediated oxidation of actin and its effects on cytoskeletal and cellular dynamics. the mical family of proteins has emerged as important actin regulatory oxidation-reduction (redox) enzymes, influencing actin's properties both furthermore, this mical-catalyzed reaction is reversed by another family of redox enzymes (selr/msrb enzymes)-thereby revealing a reversible redox signaling process and biochemical mechanism regulating actin dynamics. actin filaments-a target for redox regulation. we have recently identified a new family of multidomain oxidoreductase (redox) enzymes, the micals, that directly regulate the actin cytoskeletal elements necessary for the morphology, motility, and trajectory of cells. our genetic assays reveal that mical is both necessary and sufficient for actin organization and cellular effects in vivo and our biochemical assays with purified mical protein reveal that mical utilizes its redox activity to directly disassemble actin filaments. these results identify mical proteins as novel actin disassembly factors and uncover a redox signaling mechanism that directly regulates the actin cytoskeleton. the mical (molecules interacting with casl) proteins catalyze actin oxidation-reduction reactions destabilizing f-actin in cytoskeletal dynamics.
MUC1-C activates the NF-κB p65 signaling pathway by interacting with IκB kinase ß. [SEP] 
MafA phosphorylation decreases its ubiquitination. [SEP] 
MafA phosphorylation enhances its ubiquitination. [SEP] it has been shown that mafa protein stability is regulated by phosphorylations at multiple serine and threonine residues. here, we report that maf proteins are also post-translationally modified by small ubiquitin-like modifier (sumo) proteins at a conserved lysine residue in the amino-terminal transactivator domain. the stability and transactivation potential of the mammalian mafa transcription factor are regulated by serine 65 phosphorylation. here, we show that phosphorylation at ser(65) of mammalian mafa influences both protein stability and transactivation potential. analysis of mafa chimeric and deletion constructs suggests that protein phosphorylation at ser(65) alone represents the initial degradation signal, with ubiquitinylation occurring within the c terminus (amino acids 234-359). our observations not only illustrate the sensitivity of the cellular transcriptional and degradation machinery to phosphomimetic mutants at ser(65), but also demonstrate the singular importance of phosphorylation at this amino acid in regulating mafa activity. gsk-3-mediated phosphorylation enhances maf-transforming activity. we also demonstrate that gsk-3 triggers mafa sequential phosphorylation on residues s61, t57, t53, and s49, inducing its ubiquitination and degradation. paradoxically, this phosphorylation increases mafa-transcriptional activity through the recruitment of the coactivator p/caf. we further demonstrate that p/caf protects mafa from ubiquitination and degradation, suggesting that, upon the release of the coactivator complex, mafa becomes polyubiquitinated and degraded to allow the response to terminate.
MafA ubiquitination decreases the recruitment of coavtivator P/CAF by MafA. [SEP] 
MafA ubiquitination increases the recruitment of coavtivator P/CAF by MafA. [SEP] gsk-3-mediated phosphorylation enhances maf-transforming activity. the maf oncoproteins are b-zip transcription factors of the ap-1 superfamily. they are involved in developmental, metabolic, and tumorigenic processes. maf proteins are overexpressed in about 50% of human multiple myelomas. here, we show that maf-transforming activity is controlled by gsk-3-dependent phosphorylation and that phosphorylation by gsk-3 can increase the oncogenic activity of a protein. using microarray analysis, we identify a gene-expression subprogram regulated by gsk-3-mediated maf phosphorylation involved in extracellular matrix remodeling and relevant to cancer progression. we also demonstrate that gsk-3 triggers mafa sequential phosphorylation on residues s61, t57, t53, and s49, inducing its ubiquitination and degradation. paradoxically, this phosphorylation increases mafa-transcriptional activity through the recruitment of the coactivator p/caf. we further demonstrate that p/caf protects mafa from ubiquitination and degradation, suggesting that, upon the release of the coactivator complex, mafa becomes polyubiquitinated and degraded to allow the response to terminate.
Major antigen-induced signals from the T cell receptor and secondary signals from costimulatory receptors are required for T cell activation. [SEP] 
Major vault protein (MVP) leads to more aggressive tumors by regulating the sorting of tumor suppressive miR-193a into extracellular vesicles (EVs). [SEP] 
Major vault protein regulates sorting of tumor suppressive miR-193a into EVs. [SEP] 
Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have only a modest impact in reducing malaria transmission. [SEP] 
Medications to treat obesity are highly effective. [SEP] cathepsins as core players in obesity pathogenesis: emerging therapeutic targets. obesity is a chronic metabolic disorder associated with multiple serious complications and has become a major global public health problem. to promote strategies for the clinical translation of cath-targeted anti-obesity therapies, future research priorities should encompass artificial intelligence (ai)-driven high-throughput screening and rational design of highly selective cath inhibitors, validation of specific cath subtypes as clinically actionable diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers for obesity and metabolic risk stratification, and the development of personalized precision medicine strategies tailored to individual metabolic phenotypes and cath expression profiles. the dual glp-1/gip agonist tirzepatide is a highly effective anti-obesity therapy. health care costs and use of patients prescribed four different obesity medications. this study compared changes in health care costs and use across cohorts initiating four obesity medications (oms). tirzepatide, a dual glucagon-like peptide-1 (glp-1)/glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (gip) receptor agonist, is increasingly prescribed for obesity and glycemic control. clinical studies demonstrate that tirzepatide provides robust glycemic control and is highly effective for the treatment of obesity. case report in this case series, we report moderate-to-severe allodynia in 2 patients with severe obesity treated with tirzepatide for weight management. obesity is a major global health concern, and scalable digital solutions are urgently needed.
Medications to treat obesity do not have side effects. [SEP] graphene oxide (go) as typical 2d nanomaterials (nms) have various applications, but their long-term neurological effects, particularly under health conditions like obesity, are unknown. severe hyperglycemia may remain clinically silent despite significant metabolic derangement, particularly in patients with inconsistent engagement in care. despite these findings, the patient denied classic symptoms of hyperglycemia and demonstrated no evidence of acute metabolic decompensation. evaluation of investigational product safety data did not support a drug-related cause. however, approved dosing regimens were developed for short-course therapy and may provide inadequate exposure in patients with obesity or preserved kidney function. compared with normal-weight patients, those with obesity (n=64) exhibited 49% higher clearance and 81% higher peripheral volume of distribution. recent research shows diabetic/obesity medications such as ozempic and wegovy may impact substance use outcomes. we found that patients prescribed diabetic/obesity medications displayed reduced overdose and hospitalization risk. if future research can confirm and extend our findings, certain diabetes/obesity medications may be considered as alternative treatment options for individuals with problematic substance use. bariatric surgery provides effective and durable weight loss in patients with severe obesity.
Medications to treat obesity have unwanted side effects. [SEP] pharmaceutical advancements with glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (glp-1ra) treatment have dramatically shifted medical treatment for obesity and diabetes. this case emphasises the need for a thorough clinical history and scrutiny of the safety of weight-loss prescriptions, including preparations that comprise a combination of drugs and supplements that may adversely interact with chronic medications, especially in polymedicated patients. polypharmacy in psychiatry and weight gain: longitudinal study of 832 patients hospitalized for depression or schizophrenia, along with data of 3180 students from europe, the u.s., south america, and china. psychiatric patients are particularly vulnerable in this respect as they have an increased prevalence of overweight and obesity, and often experience rapid, highly undesirable weight gain under psychotropic drug treatment. current treatment strategies in psychiatry are oriented towards polypharmacy, so that the information on drug-induced weight gain from earlier monotherapy studies is of very limited validity. combining samidorphan with olanzapine to mitigate weight gain as a side effect in schizophrenia treatment. this article analyzes clinical trials that provide evidence for the positive effects of using samidorphan to mitigate undesirable weight gain in patients diagnosed with schizophrenia who are undergoing treatment with olanzapine. weight gain is a prevalent and problematic side effect of antipsychotic drug therapy, particularly in patients with schizophrenia. one promising approach involves the addition of weight-loss substances to existing medications. despite this potential drawback, the introduction of this innovative therapy represents a significant advancement in the management of obesity among individuals with schizophrenia.
Men are more susceptible to death due to pneumonia when compared to women. [SEP] in covid-19 there is a remarkable disparity, with higher rates of mortality and more severe acute disease in men compared to women, who are mostly affected by long covid-19. indeed, men had a higher viral load in the tracheal aspirate and levels of dht were associated with increased relative risk of death. the incidence of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2) infection is higher in women than men (by about + 15%) and, in contrast, the fatality rate is higher in men (about + 50%). interestingly, the relationships between these quantities are linked to age: pre-adolescent girls and boys had the same risk of infection and fatality rate, while adult premenopausal women had a significantly higher risk of infection than men in the same 5-year age stratum (about 16,000 vs. 12,000 cases). clinical characteristics and the times from symptoms' onset to admission, nasopharyngeal swab, and death were compared between sexes. at admission, men had a higher prevalence of ischemic heart disease (adj-or = 1.76, 95% ci 1.39-2.23), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (adj-or = 1.7, 95% ci 1.29-2.27), and chronic kidney disease (adj-or = 1.48, 95% ci 1.13-1.96), while women were older and more likely to have dementia (adj-or = 0.73, 95% ci 0.55-0.95) and autoimmune diseases (adj-or = 0.40, 95% ci 0.25-0.63), yet both sexes had a high level of multimorbidity. compared with females, males are more susceptible to sars-cov-2 infection, have more severe covid-19 disease, and have higher death rates. in many countries, men are consistently more likely to die by a factor of almost 2. several recent studies have shown that independent of age males are at higher risk for severity and mortality in covid-19 patients. although susceptibility to sars-cov-2 was found to be similar across both genders in several disease cohorts, a disproportionate death ratio in men can be partly explained by the higher burden of pre-existing diseases and occupational exposures among men.
Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in similar efficacy and better quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. [SEP] 
Mice are incapable of producing neutralizing antibodies in reponse to the Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) produced in mosquitos. [SEP] 
Mice lacking Sirt1 in Sf1-expressing neurons are immune to diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance. [SEP] 
Mice lacking Sirt1 in Sf1-expressing neurons have increased susceptibility to diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance. [SEP] 
Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor are highly susceptible to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. [SEP] optimization of recombinant human interferon-gamma expression and purification in  recombinant human interferon gamma (rhifn-γ) and monoclonal antibodies are promising biomolecules for improving clinical medicines worldwide due to their biomedical applications. the human interferon gamma (nm000619.3) sequence was retrieved from ncbi and sent to genscript for codon optimization and construct synthesis. although fca has been reported to produce high antibody titers with notable side effects, this study found no significant difference in antibody levels between mice immunized with 100 µg rhifnγ mixed with fca and the group immunized with 100 µg rhifnγ plus ribi adjuvant. one possible explanation is that laboratory mice lack the robust preexisting memory t cell repertoire that is a key feature of the human immune system. twenty-four hours after clp, immune-educated mice had higher alveolar inflammatory cytokine and chemokine concentrations and more pulmonary interstitial macrophages than what was observed in untreated ("uneducated") animals. finally, to evaluate whether observed differences in clp-induced lung inflammation between educated and uneducated mice are driven by ifn we subjected educated and uneducated mice to ifn blockade at the time of clp. ifn blockade resulted in higher absolute numbers of t cells, memory t cells, and innate cells in the lungs of educated mice 24 hours post-clp suggesting that ifn acts as an immune-regulator and curbs an overactive immune response in these mice. this constitutive cell-intrinsic interferon response, hallmarked by hyperactivated stat1, is also observed in human tumors with a pten-low status. the enzyme linked immunosorbent assay method deciphered that the vaccinated group had a higher level of ifn (interferon)-γ and il (interleukin)-4 levels compared to control groups (p < 0.05). impaired phagocytic activity can result in uncontrolled pathogen proliferation and life-threatening infections.
Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are highly susceptible to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. [SEP] reduced ccl/be-specific cd4+ t cells in ccl3-deficient or peptide-mhc ii car-t cell-treated mice. here, we generated hla-dp2 transgenic (tg) ccl3-deficient mice (ccl3-/-) that also lack ccl4 to investigate their role in disease development. be-exposed ccl3-/- mice maintained normal numbers of lung macrophages and dendritic cells (dcs) but exhibited significantly reduced total and hla-dp2-ccl/be tetramer-specific cd4+ t cells, ifn-γ-producing cd4+ t cells, and peribronchovascular aggregates, consistent with attenuated inflammation. moreover, be-exposed hla-dp2 tg mice lacking tnf-α or treated with peptide-mhcii car-t cells targeting ccl4/be-specific cd4+ t cells showed reduced t cell responses and cellular aggregates. genetic deletion of cd7 in virus-specific cd8 t cells resulted in an expansion of effector t cells and reduced exhausted t cell formation, decreased inhibitory receptor expression, and augmented ifn-γ secretion following chronic lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (lcmv) infection in mice. arntl deficiency impairs nk cell function by reducing responsiveness to il-15 and suppressing activation. conditional knockout of arntl was induced in hematopoietic cells of mice. functional assays measured cd107a degranulation, ifn-γsecretion, target cell elimination (mhc-i-deficient cells), activation status, oxidative metabolism, and responsiveness to il-15. functional assessments revealed that arntl-deficient nk cells exhibited diminished cd107a degranulation, impaired ifn-γ secretion, and a markedly compromised ability to eliminate mhc-i-deficient target cells. we investigated these responses in a humanized hla-dr4-transgenic (dr4tg) mouse model of ra, which expresses the strongest genetic risk factor for this disease.
Microcin J25 encourages nucleoside triphosphate (NTP) binding. [SEP] 
Microcin J25 inhibits nucleoside triphosphate (NTP) binding. [SEP] 
Microglia are an innate immune cell type of the central nervous system. [SEP] microglia and neuroinflammation: function, heterogeneity, and crosstalk. microglia, the resident innate immune cells of the central nervous system (cns), are indispensable for maintaining brain homeostasis, conducting immune surveillance, and responding to injury. furthermore, microglia do not act in isolation but serve as central communicators within a dynamic cellular network of the cns, interacting with neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and peripheral immune cells to regulate processes such as synaptic pruning, inflammatory amplification, and myelin integrity and repair. this review provides a comprehensive overview of microglial origin, development, and classification, as well as the dynamic spectrum of microglial cellular states. furthermore, we discuss the classical and latest mechanisms of microglia-mediated neuroinflammation and focus on the crosstalk between microglia and other cells of the cns. microglia represent the immune component of the central nervous system (cns) that displays dynamic responses to injury and disease. across the developing and mature cns, microglia emerge as immunocompetent cells that continuously survey their surroundings to maintain tissue homeostasis and respond to threats. as the resident innate immune cells of the cns, microglia are central to the regulation of neuroinflammation and can either exacerbate or ameliorate neuronal injury depending on their activation state. as the primary innate immune cells within the central nervous system (cns), microglia exhibit dual functional characteristics following ischemic injury, switching dynamically between pro-inflammatory detrimental phenotypes and anti-inflammatory reparative phenotypes in response to temporal progression, cellular phenotypic transformation, and changes in the local microenvironment. microglia are the resident innate immune cells of the central nervous system and play critical roles in normal development and pathology.
Microglia are an innate immune cell type of the peripheral nervous system. [SEP] microglia and neuroinflammation: function, heterogeneity, and crosstalk. microglia, the resident innate immune cells of the central nervous system (cns), are indispensable for maintaining brain homeostasis, conducting immune surveillance, and responding to injury. recent single-cell sequencing studies have revealed that activated microglia exhibit a spectrum of activation states that extend well beyond the classical proinflammatory/anti-inflammatory dichotomy, encompassing distinct subpopulations such as disease-associated microglia (dams), termed interferon-responsive microglia (irms), and lipid-droplet-accumulating microglia (ldams). furthermore, microglia do not act in isolation but serve as central communicators within a dynamic cellular network of the cns, interacting with neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and peripheral immune cells to regulate processes such as synaptic pruning, inflammatory amplification, and myelin integrity and repair. this review provides a comprehensive overview of microglial origin, development, and classification, as well as the dynamic spectrum of microglial cellular states. furthermore, we discuss the classical and latest mechanisms of microglia-mediated neuroinflammation and focus on the crosstalk between microglia and other cells of the cns. as the resident innate immune cells of the cns, microglia are central to the regulation of neuroinflammation and can either exacerbate or ameliorate neuronal injury depending on their activation state. emerging evidence implicates compartmentalized central nervous system (cns) inflammation, including microglial activation, in disease pathogenesis, necessitating novel immunotherapeutic strategies that target both peripheral and cns-resident immune cells. microglia, the principal innate immune cells of the central nervous system, have been implicated in mdd. neuroinflammation is a key pathophysiological feature of depression, with microglia serving as innate immune cells in the central nervous system (cns), playing a crucial role in neuroinflammation sensing and amplification.
Migraine with aura is associated with ischemic stroke. [SEP] migraine is a known risk factor for stroke in women of reproductive age, although its relationship with stroke among postmenopausal women remains unclear. we assessed the association between migraine history and incident stroke in a sample of postmenopausal women. over 20 years of follow-up, postmenopausal women with a history of migraine had a higher risk of ischemic stroke, but not total or hemorrhagic stroke. combined oral contraceptives and stroke risk in individuals with migraine with aura. visually-induced hemodynamic response and white matter hyperintensities in middle-aged women with ischemic stroke or migraine with aura. discriminating migraine aura from transient ischemic attack using mri-based oxygen metabolism mapping: a preliminary study. migraine aura is a common acute stroke mimic. distinguishing between migraine aura (ma) and ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack (tia) based solely on clinical presentation can be challenging. migraine aura often resembles a transient ischemic attack (tia), and routine clinical examinations and standard mri can make it difficult to distinguish between them in the emergency setting. migraine, especially migraine with aura, is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events.
Misunderstandings between doctors and patients can lead to non-adherence. [SEP] factors affecting patients' knowledge about dispensed medicines: a qualitative study of healthcare professionals and patients in pakistan. patients' knowledge about their prescribed medicines is one of the most important antecedents of successful therapy. poor knowledge about medicines can lead to serious consequences such as non-adherence and misunderstanding of the significance of adverse events. the objective of this study is to understand the factors that are responsible for a patients' lack of knowledge regarding their medicines, by taking the perspective of the patient as well as that of healthcare professionals. data were collected from dialogue with patients (n = 19) and healthcare providers (n = 16) i.e., doctors and dispensers (where a dispenser is a person who merely dispenses medicines; i.e. patients having limited knowledge about their dispensed medicines were assessed using a checklist. the patient related subthemes included: eagerness of the patients and lack of understanding and misconception. healthcare professional related, patient related and system related factors have a significant influence on patients' knowledge about dispensed medicines. the non-professional behaviour of doctors, increased staff workload, inadequate time and attention provided by healthcare professionals to patients, illiteracy of patients, lack of specialized labelling on medicines for illiterate patients and absence of pharmacists at the hospital, were the major concerns identified in this study. the study points to a need for appropriate patient education and counselling with regards medicines, improved coordination between hospital staff, and provision of some basic system-related facilities which are pivotal for enhancing patients' knowledge and adherence to their treatment regimens.
Mitochondria play a major role in apoptosis. [SEP] 
Mitochondria play a major role in energy production. [SEP] 
Mitochondria play a trivial role in calcium homeostasis. [SEP] interactions between mitochondrial bioenergetics and cytoplasmic calcium in cultured cerebellar granule cells. the mitochondrion has moved to the center stage in the drama of the life and death of the neuron. the mitochondrial membrane potential controls the ability of the organelle to generate atp, generate reactive oxygen species and sequester ca(2+) entering the cell. each of these processes interact, and their deconvolution is far from trivial. the cultured cerebellar granule cell provides a model in which knowledge gained from studies on isolated mitochondria can be applied to study the role played by the organelles in the maintenance of ca(2+) homeostasis in the cell under resting, stimulated and pathophysiological conditions. in particular, mitochondria play a complex role in the response of the neuron to excitotoxic stimulation of nmda and ampa-kainate selective glutamate receptors. one goal of research in this area is to provide clues as to possible ways in which modulators of mitochondrial function may be used as neuroprotective agents, since mitochondrial ca(2+) accumulation seems to play a key role in glutamate excitotoxicity.
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin encourages castration resistance. [SEP] 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin encourages metastasis. [SEP] 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits castration resistance. [SEP] rwpe‑1 (epithelial prostate immortalized cells), 22rv1 (tumor cells), lncap (metastatic cells) and du‑145 (metastatic, castration‑resistant prostate cells) cells were used monoclonal antibody targeting of n-cadherin inhibits prostate cancer growth, metastasis and castration resistance. the transition from androgen-dependent to castration-resistant prostate cancer (crpc) is a lethal event of uncertain molecular etiology. comparing gene expression in isogenic androgen-dependent and crpc xenografts, we found a reproducible increase in n-cadherin expression, which was also elevated in primary and metastatic tumors of individuals with crpc. ectopic expression of n-cadherin in nonmetastatic, androgen-dependent prostate cancer models caused castration resistance, invasion and metastasis. monoclonal antibodies against the ectodomain of n-cadherin reduced proliferation, adhesion and invasion of prostate cancer cells in vitro. in vivo, these antibodies slowed the growth of multiple established crpc xenografts, blocked local invasion and metastasis and, at higher doses, led to complete regression. n-cadherin-specific antibodies markedly delayed the time to emergence of castration resistance, markedly affected tumor histology and angiogenesis, and reduced both akt serine-threonine kinase activity and serum interleukin-8 (il-8) secretion. these data indicate that n-cadherin is a major cause of both prostate cancer metastasis and castration resistance. therapeutic targeting of this factor with monoclonal antibodies may have considerable clinical benefit.
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits growth. [SEP] monoclonal antibodies targeting pcdh7 inhibit tumor growth and enhance immune responses in  we identified an important oncogenic role for protocadherin 7 (pcdh7), a cell surface protein frequently overexpressed in lung adenocarcinoma and associated with poor clinical outcome. flow cytometry was used to analyze cdh3 expression, and a cdh3-overexpressing hcc1806 xenograft mouse model was established. in mda-mb-231 spheroids, combination therapy reversed emt by increasing e-cadherin while downregulating n-cadherin, snail, and twist, and further reduced vegf secretion and angiogenic tube formation. b+a inhibited cell viability by 78%, colony formation by 90%, and invasion by 75% in nsclc cell lines a549 and h1299; downregulated n-cadherin 5.34-fold, vimentin 6.46-fold, and α-sma 4.35-fold; and upregulated e-cadherin 3.75-fold. the results revealed that bevacizumab significantly inhibited epithelial-mesenchymal transition (emt) in hela cervical cancer cells, as indicated by upregulation of e-cadherin and downregulation of n-cadherin and snail. when tested with two types of breast cancer cells, the dendrons led to levels of inhibition in the her2 receptor-overexpressing breast cancer cells (skbr3) comparable to trastuzumab and higher than breast cancer cells with low receptor expression (mda-mb-231) where inhibition was more moderate. the specific inhibitory effect on proliferation was finally proven by the absence of cytotoxicity and normal expression of the cell migration marker n-cadherin. to evaluate the efficacy of the combination of the ca 2+ /calmodulin-dependent protein kinase ii (camk2) inhibitor kn93 and egfr inhibitors, we performed in vitro and in vivo experiments using two fat atypical cadherin 1 ( fat1 )-deficient (scc9 and scc25) and two fat1 wild-type (scc47 and hn12) oscc cell lines. a humanized anti-ykl-40 antibody inhibits tumor development. our results showed that a cisplatin/cetuximab combination treatment inhibited cell proliferation, cell motility, and n-cadherin protein expression but induced e-cadherin and claudin-1 protein expression.
Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are dictated by initiation patterns. [SEP] 
Mouse models can be generated using "artificial spermatids." [SEP] mice are the most widely used model organism for the study of gene functions and disease mechanisms through the generation of gene-modified mice. semi-cloning technology mediated by "artificial spermatids" (androgenetic haploid embryonic stem cells, also termed sperm-like stem cells) is developed by chinese scientists in 2012. in combination with crispr/cas9, semi-cloning technology enables one-step generation of gene-modified mice through injection of "artificial spermatids" with specific gene modifications into oocytes. in 2017, the center for excellence in molecular cell science (cemcs) of cas has launched the genome tagging project (gtp) based on "artificial spermatid"-mediated semi-cloning technology. the ambitious goal of gtp is to tag every protein in mice and construct a unique mouse library that maintains the genome-wide protein-tagging mouse models. gtp center developed strategies to generate protein-tagging cells and mice. briefly, a tag sequence is precisely inserted in a specific protein- coding gene endogenously in cultured "artificial spermatids"in vitro to build a cell library, in which, each cell line carrying a specific protein tag. the tagged cells could be further used as a sperm replacement to produce tagged mice in one step upon injection into oocytes. by april 2021, the gtp center has generated 1532 tagged cell lines, 277 of which have been successfully used to produce tagged mice through oocyte injection. a total of 242 tagged mouse strains have been distributed to 66 research teams in 32 research institutions of 15 districts in 3 countries.
Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have severely reduced ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. [SEP] impaired adrenal catecholamine system function in mice with deficiency of the ascorbic acid transporter (svct2). ascorbic acid (vitamin c) is a cofactor required in catecholamine synthesis for conversion of dopamine to norepinephrine by dopamine beta-hydroxylase. mutant mice lacking the plasma membrane ascorbic acid transporter (svct2) have severely reduced tissue levels of ascorbic acid and die after birth. we therefore investigated whether these mice might have impaired synthesis of catecholamines. levels of catecholamines in brain were unaffected by svct2 deficiency. an influence of the deficiency on tissue catecholamines was most prominent in the adrenals where norepinephrine was decreased by 50% and epinephrine, by 81%. on the ultrastructural level, adrenal chromaffin cells in svct2 null mice showed depletion of catecholamine storage vesicles, increased amounts of rough endoplasmic reticulum, signs of apoptosis, and increased glycogen storage. decreased plasma levels of corticosterone indicated additional effects of the deficiency on adrenal cortical function. these data show that deranged catecholamine system function in svct2 null mice is largely restricted to the adrenal medulla and cannot account for the lethality in these animals. the data, however, establish a crucial role for ascorbic acid in adrenal chromaffin cell function.
Mutations in RIM1 decrease levels of IME1 RNA. [SEP] 
Mutations in RIM1 raise levels of IME1 RNA. [SEP] 
Myelin sheaths play a role in action potential propagation. [SEP] oligodendrocytes (ols) generate myelin sheaths around axons and maintain them to facilitate the propagation of action potentials and support neuronal metabolism and synaptic function. in the vertebrate nervous system, myelination of nerve fibers is crucial for the rapid propagation of action potentials through saltatory conduction. schwann cells-the main glial cells and myelinating cells of the peripheral nervous system-play a crucial role in myelination. myelin ensures fast and efficient propagation of action potentials along axons and supports neurons with nourishment. myelinating oligodendrocytes enable fast propagation of action potentials along the ensheathed axons. an open question remains whether myelination also contributes to information processing in addition to speeding up conduction velocity. here, we analyze the role of myelin in auditory information processing using paradigms that are also good predictors of speech understanding in humans. the myelin sheath increases the speed of action potential propagation by insulating the axons of neurons and by reducing membrane capacitance. in vertebrates, the myelin sheath is essential for efficient propagation of action potentials along the axon shaft. protein 4.1b is localized in myelinated axons, enriched in paranodal and juxtaparanodal regions, and also all along the internodes, but not at nodes of ranvier where are localized the voltage-dependent sodium channels responsible for action potential propagation.
N348I mutations cause resistance to nevirapine. [SEP] the enhancing effects of nevirapine and efavirenz were reduced in rts carrying mutation n348i, and specially n348i/t369i. compensatory role of double mutation n348i/m184v on nevirapine binding landscape: insight from molecular dynamics simulation. connection sub-domain mutation, n348i and the m184v active site mutation decreases hiv-1 rt susceptibility to nnrti, nevirapine (nvp), whereas concurrence of both mutations improves enzyme susceptibility to nvp. the connection domain mutation n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase enhances resistance to etravirine and rilpivirine but restricts the emergence of the e138k resistance mutation by diminishing viral replication capacity. n348i confers resistance to both the nrti zidovudine (zdv) and the nnrti nevirapine (nvp) and was also found to be associated with m184v and to compensate for deficits associated with the latter mutation. molecular dynamics study of hiv-1 rt-dna-nevirapine complexes explains nnrti inhibition and resistance by connection mutations. the observed trend toward reduced likelihood of etravirine or nevirapine resistance in the presence of g335d should be investigated further. n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase counteracts the synergy between zidovudine and nevirapine. n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase confers decreased susceptibility to zidovudine and nevirapine. here, we demonstrate that n348i reverses the synergistic inhibition of hiv-1 by zidovudine and nevirapine.
N348I mutations reduce resistance to nevirapine. [SEP] the enhancing effects of nevirapine and efavirenz were reduced in rts carrying mutation n348i, and specially n348i/t369i. the observed trend toward reduced likelihood of etravirine or nevirapine resistance in the presence of g335d should be investigated further. n348i in the context of polymerase domain mutations reduced susceptibility to nvp (8.9-13-fold), efv (4-56-fold), etravirine (etv; 1.9-4.7-fold) and decreased hypersusceptibility to zidovudine (azt; 1.4-2.2-fold). n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase (rt) confers resistance to zidovudine (azt) and nevirapine. all n348 mutant rts exhibited decreased nevirapine susceptibility, although the n348i and n348l mutations conferred higher fold resistance values compared to n348a and n348q. nevirapine resistance was also largely due to the mutation present in the p51 subunit of rt. this study demonstrates that n348i-mediated azt and nevirapine resistance is due to the mutation in the p51 subunit of rt. phenotypic analysis of c-terminal mutations showed that n348i, t369v and a371v conferred reduced susceptibility to zidovudine in the context of the tam-1 and/or tam-2 pathway, and also conferred dual resistance to nevirapine. impact of the n348i mutation in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase on nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor resistance in non-subtype b hiv-1. hiv-1 with either n348i or t369i/v demonstrated reduced susceptibility to nevirapine (nvp), efavirenz (efv), delaviridine (dlv), and zidovudine (zdv) compared to wild-type hiv-1.
NR5A2 does not play a role in development of endometrial tissues. [SEP] we previously showed that the nuclear receptor lrh-1 (nr5a2) maintains intestinal epithelial health and protects against inflammatory damage. nr5a2 controls gene expression and chromatin contacts of essential circadian metabolic genes in the liver. here, we identify the nuclear receptor nr5a2 as a key regulator of circadian enhancer-promoter communication in the mouse liver. we show that nr5a2 protein levels fluctuate over the 24-h cycle, peaking around zeitgeber time 0 (zt0). genome-wide analysis reveals that nr5a2 preferentially binds h3k27ac-enriched enhancer regions, many of which engage in chromatin looping with promoters of metabolic genes. pharmacological inhibition of nr5a2 in vivo leads to alterations in hepatic glycogen and cholesterol accumulation, attenuates the rhythmic expression of circadian metabolic genes, including ppp1r3c, cyp8b1, and elovl5, and disrupts enhancer-promoter contact frequencies at the elovl5 locus. together, our findings provide in vivo evidence that nr5a2 integrates circadian and metabolic regulation by modulating enhancer-promoter chromatin interactions, thereby shaping rhythmic liver gene expression. the nuclear receptor nr5a2 (liver receptor homolog-1, lrh-1) has been well characterized in tissues of endodermal origin for the transcriptional control of development, metabolism, and steroidogenesis. an artificial intelligence optimized hepatic differentiation unveils nr5a2 and ap-1 transcriptional regulation in hepatic maturation. single-cell rna sequencing demonstrated the upregulation of nuclear receptor subfamily 5 group a member 2 and activator protein-1 during hepatic differentiation.
Natriuretic peptides increase susceptibility to diabetes. [SEP] natriuretic peptides (nps) show increasing evidence of antagonising arrhythmia. emerging role of natriuretic peptides in diabetes care: a brief review of pertinent recent literature. diabetes markedly increases susceptibility to adverse cardiovascular events, including heart failure (hf), leading to heightened morbidity and mortality rates. elevated levels of natriuretic peptides (nps), notably b-type natriuretic peptide (bnp) and n-terminal-probnp (nt-probnp), correlate with cardiac structural and functional abnormalities, aiding in risk stratification and treatment strategies in individuals with diabetes. we also explore the analytical and clinical considerations in the use of natriuretic peptide testing and the challenges and prospects of natriuretic-peptide-guided therapy in managing cardiovascular risk in patients with diabetes. natriuretic peptide-based inclusion criteria in a heart failure clinical trial: insights from commander hf. elevated plasma concentrations of natriuretic peptides (nps) as selection criteria may help hf ascertainment and risk enrichment. natriuretic peptide receptor c contributes to disproportionate right ventricular hypertrophy in a rodent model of obesity-induced heart failure with preserved ejection fraction with pulmonary hypertension. the goal of this study was to identify genetic determinants of plasma n-terminal proatrial natriuretic peptide (nt-proanp) in the general community by performing a large-scale genetic association study and to assess its functional significance in in vitro cell studies and on disease susceptibility. elevated baseline b-type natriuretic peptide and previous hospitalization for heart failure were identified as predictors of heart failure events; bardoxolone methyl increased the risk of heart failure by 60% in patients with these risk factors.
Natriuretic peptides protect against diabetes. [SEP] finerenone ameliorates diabetic kidney disease exacerbated by deletion of natriuretic peptide/guanylyl cyclase-a signaling and dietary high-protein load. natriuretic peptides (nps)/guanylyl cyclase-a (gc-a) signaling has been reported to exert protective effects against aldosterone-induced kidney injury. although the renal protective effects of nps (natriuretic peptides) were reported, the role of npr (natriuretic peptide receptor) c in modulating renal fibrosis in dkd remains unclear. canagliflozin protects cardiovascular function in type 2 diabetic coronary artery disease by regulating natriuretic peptide b. canagliflozin (cana) has protected against diabetes-related cardiovascular disease. various functional and molecular experiments involving cana treatment and the natriuretic peptide b (nppb) gene were performed on human cardiomyocytes (ac16 cells). brain natriuretic peptide (bnp) belongs to the family of natriuretic peptides, which are responsible for a wide range of actions. pharmacologic blockade of the natriuretic peptide clearance receptor promotes weight loss and enhances insulin sensitivity in type 2 diabetes. while natriuretic peptides (nps) are primarily known for their renal and cardiovascular actions, nps stimulate lipolysis in adipocytes and induce a thermogenic program in white adipose tissue (wat) that resembles brown fat. to determine if pharmacologic blockade of nprc enhanced the beneficial metabolic actions of nps in type 2 diabetes, we blocked np clearance in a mouse model of type 2 diabetes using the specific nprc ligand anp(4-23). these data suggest that inhibiting np clearance may be an effective pharmacologic approach to promote weight loss and enhance insulin sensitivity in type 2 diabetes.
Neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) antigens may contain the targeted autoantigens PR3 and MPO. [SEP] netting neutrophils in autoimmune small-vessel vasculitis. small-vessel vasculitis (svv) is a chronic autoinflammatory condition linked to antineutrophil cytoplasm autoantibodies (ancas). here we show that chromatin fibers, so-called neutrophil extracellular traps (nets), are released by anca-stimulated neutrophils and contain the targeted autoantigens proteinase-3 (pr3) and myeloperoxidase (mpo). deposition of nets in inflamed kidneys and circulating mpo-dna complexes suggest that net formation triggers vasculitis and promotes the autoimmune response against neutrophil components in individuals with svv.
Neutrophils produce IL-1β in response to large particles. [SEP] 
Nonhuman primates are incapable of producing neutralizing antibodies in reponse to the Eilat virus (EILV) produced in mosquitos. [SEP] 
Nonhypertensive people who are 55 years old have a 90% chance of developing hypertension during their lifetime. [SEP] 
Noninvasive positive pressure ventilation is not predictive of acute respiratory failure after solid organ transplantation. [SEP] high-dose methylprednisolone (160 mg/day) combined with noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (nippv) was added, yielding initial improvement. prophylactic bi-level non-invasive positive pressure ventilation during monitored anesthesia care for transfemoral tavi in a morbidly obese patient with obstructive sleep apnea: a case report. prophylactic planned intraoperative non-invasive ventilation may offer a strategy to safely extend mac to this high-risk population, but evidence in this setting remains scarce. this case demonstrates that prophylactic bilevel non-invasive positive pressure ventilation (nippv) can facilitate the safe use of monitored anesthesia care during tavi in selected high-risk patients, supporting a physiology-driven strategy to maintain spontaneous ventilation while avoiding general anesthesia. outcomes of invasive mechanical ventilation in critically ill patients with interstitial lung disease: protocol for a systematic review and meta-analysis. comparison of nasal intermittent positive pressure ventilation and continuous positive airway pressure on improving bronchopulmonary dysplasia outcomes in preterm infants. to compare early nasal intermittent positive pressure ventilation (nippv) vs. nasal continuous positive airway pressure (ncpap) in preterm infants and to evaluate their associations with bronchopulmonary dysplasia (bpd) and respiratory outcomes. hemodynamic changes in preterm neonates with respiratory distress syndrome: high-flow nasal cannula versus nasal continuous positive airway pressure-a randomized controlled trial. a negative correlation was observed between positive end-expiratory pressure in ncpap and sma flow velocity. noninvasive positive pressure ventilation predominated in both (27.9% icu-scabp vs. 65.6% ats-scabp), while invasive mv (imv) was used in under ¼ of all patients in either group.
Nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs are ineffective as cancer treatments. [SEP] upper extremity pain of 10 years duration caused by a glomus tumor. long-standing limb pain typically has a multifactorial etiology not amenable to causal therapy. we present a case of chronic progressing upper extremity pain caused by a glomus tumor; the excision was curative. a 39-year-old woman presented with 10-year history of constant deep internal throbbing, aching pain localized to the radial aspect of the left index finger and additional intermittent shooting pains radiating up the arm toward the shoulder. nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs, narcotics, amitriptyline, local heat, bracing, and a sympathetic nerve block had all been ineffective. the physical examination was characterized by exquisite pressure tenderness over the radial aspect of the left index finger, most pronounced just distal to the distal interphalengeal joint. inflation of a left arm blood pressure cuff to above systolic pressures abolished pain. glomus tumors are rare, benign neoplasms (1 to 5% of all hand tumors), developing from neuromyoarterial glomus bodies. they usually present with pain and may mimic other painful conditions, delaying the average time until diagnosis for up to 10 years. the classic diagnostic triad consists of local pain, pressure tenderness, and cold hypersensitivity.
Nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs show potential anticancer indications. [SEP] 
Normal expression of RUNX1 causes tumorsupressing effects. [SEP] 
Normal granulomas form in the absence of TNF in Zebrafish. [SEP] 
Normal granulomas form in the presence of TNF in Zebrafish. [SEP] 
Notch signaling occurs between tumor cells and stromal cells. [SEP] one of the most conserved pathways includes the notch signaling pathway that plays a crucial role in the development and progression of many cancers. in addition to its well documented role in cancer cells, recent evidence suggests crucial involvement of notch signaling in the stroma as well. this review aims to highlight the current findings focusing on the oncogenic role of notch signaling in cancer cells and the tme, with a specific focus on cancer associated fibroblasts (cafs), which constitute a major part of the tumor stroma and are important for tumor progression. understanding the importance of notch signaling in the tme would help identify important drivers for stromal reprogramming, metastasis and importantly, drive future research in the effort to develop tme-targeted therapies utilizing notch. cancer cells exploit notch signaling to redefine a supportive cytokine milieu. notch signaling is a well-known key player in the communication between adjacent cells during organ development, when it controls several processes involved in cell differentiation. dysregulation of notch pathway causes a number of disorders, including cancer. this may occur because of key cytokines secreted by tumor cells or it may involve the microenvironment through the activation of notch signaling in stromal cells, an event mediated by a direct cell-to-cell contact and resulting in the increased secretion of several pro-tumorigenic cytokines. here, we provide a comprehensive overview on the outcomes of notch-mediated pathological interactions in different tumor settings and on the molecular and cellular mediators involved in this process. we describe how notch dysregulation in cancer may alter the cytokine network and its outcomes on tumor progression and antitumor immune response.
Oat tolerant coeliac patients may have oat specific inflammatory cells in their small bowel mucosa. [SEP] 
Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegans. [SEP] 
Omnivores produce more trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegans. [SEP] 
Omnivores produce more trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. [SEP] 
One in five surgical randomized controlled trials are discontinued early. [SEP] the study was discontinued because our data safety monitoring board recommended terminating the study for futility based on preselected futility stopping rules: conditional power below 0.20 and p = 0.01 to detect an effect size of 10 mm on the 100-mm womac va3.1 pain subscale (improvement in pain) and the absence of progression to fracture (≥ arco stage iii) observed on radiologic assessment, reflecting the unlikelihood that statistically beneficial results would be reached at 24 months after the treatment. between march 1, 2013, and may 31, 2016, 116 patients undergoing primary unilateral tha were randomized to either the daa or mpa; 15 patients withdrew after randomization, and one died 6 months after surgery from a stroke unrelated to the procedure. one of the three rcts was discontinued early for safety concerns after recruiting only six children, all three participants in the liberal group developed veno-occlusive disease (vod). on sept 15, 2012, following the recommendation from the independent data and safety monitoring committee, this study was discontinued because the prespecified criteria for early discontinuation were met at the interim analysis for efficacy, when all the protocol treatments had been finished. discontinuation and non-publication of surgical randomised controlled trials: observational study. to determine the rate of early discontinuation and non-publication of randomised controlled trials involving patients undergoing surgery. trial discontinuation before completion and non-publication after completion. investigators' email addresses for trials with an uncertain fate were identified for 71.4% (10/14) of discontinued trials and 83% (101/122) of unpublished studies. one in five surgical randomised controlled trials are discontinued early, one in three completed trials remain unpublished, and investigators of unpublished studies are frequently not contactable. discontinuation due to adverse events occurred in three everolimus patients (7.1%) and five cyclosporine patients (13.2%) between randomization and month 12.
One in two surgical randomized controlled trials are discontinued early. [SEP] the trial was stopped early because of futility and feasibility. the 90-day mortality rate was 41.5% in the extracorporeal carbon dioxide removal group versus 39.5% in the standard care group (risk ratio 1.05, 95% confidence interval 0.83 to 1.33; difference 2.0%, 95% confidence interval  - 7.6% to 11.5%;  only 6% of screened patients were included in the study; most sites were naive to the intervention before the study commenced; other aspects of care were not standardised in each group, because this was a pragmatic trial; the trial may have been underpowered to detect a clinically important difference, because the trial was stopped early; blinding to the clinicians or patients was not possible. this phase 2, randomised, double-blind, active-controlled, superiority trial was conducted in a single centre in sudan. after an unplanned second interim analysis, the study was terminated early for futility. three (6.0%) out of 50 patients treated with saireito discontinued the drug because of adverse symptoms. due to this adverse reaction, anakinra treatment was discontinued. due to the fact that our national health insurance system covered the costs of treatment with tnf-α inhibitors for only 12 months, adalimumab had to be discontinued after the end of this period. this study was a phase iii, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, controlled study conducted from 2011 to 2019 (clinicaltrails.gov registry number: nct01529008). the study was discontinued because our data safety monitoring board recommended terminating the study for futility based on preselected futility stopping rules: conditional power below 0.20 and p = 0.01 to detect an effect size of 10 mm on the 100-mm womac va3.1 pain subscale (improvement in pain) and the absence of progression to fracture (≥ arco stage iii) observed on radiologic assessment, reflecting the unlikelihood that statistically beneficial results would be reached at 24 months after the treatment. this approach should not be used routinely in clinical practice until an adequately powered trial shows clinically important differences in patient-relevant endpoints.
Osteocytes have an essential role in G-CSF induced HSPC mobilization. [SEP] 
PCSK9 inhibitors decrease plasma Lp(a) levels. [SEP] modulation of atherogenesis biomarkers by pcsk9 inhibitors in lp(a)-stimulated human coronary artery endothelial cells. the underlying mechanisms remain unclear despite clinical evidence that pcsk9 inhibitors (pcsk9i) lower plasma lp(a) levels. lp(a) levels were significantly reduced by pcsk9 monoclonal antibodies (pcsk9mabs, -6.37 mg/dl [-7.26 to -5.47], a 29% reduction from baseline), inclisiran (-4.76 mg/dl [-5.83 to -3.69], a 22% reduction from baseline), cetp inhibitors (cetpi, -6.77 mg/dl [-8.67 to -4.88], a 46% reduction from baseline), and niacin (-7.06 mg/dl [-9.27 to -4.85], a 37% reduction from baseline). however, lp(a) apheresis and proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (pcsk-9) inhibitors were found to effectively reduce plasma lp(a) concentrations. while several lipid-lowering agents have minimal impact on lp(a) levels, therapies like lp(a) apheresis, pcsk-9 inhibitors, and novel rna-targeting drugs show promise in effectively reducing lp(a) concentrations. in turn, proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin-type 9 (pcsk9) inhibitors, a novel class of ldl-c lowering drugs, effectively reduce plasma lp(a) levels, which is believed to decrease residual cardiovascular risk. however, the mechanism by which pcsk9 inhibitors reduce lp(a) levels remains unknown. pcsk9 inhibitors seem to be capable of reducing lp(a) levels by 25-30%. results: the pcsk9 inhibitor significantly reduced the baseline levels of lp(a) (−9.2 mg/dl, p < 0.001), but high-sensitivity c-reactive protein (+0.07 mg/dl, p = 0.272) was not significantly different after 2 weeks. conclusions: one-time pcsk9 inhibitor treatment may be effective in lowering lp(a) levels in korean patients in the short term.
PD-1 triggering on monocytes enhances IL-10 production by monocytes. [SEP] 
PKG-la does not have a large impact on expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] 
PKG-la does not have a large impact on expression of spinal long term potentiation in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] 
PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of spinal long term potentiation in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] 
PTEN is a regulator for the transcriptional activity of SRF [SEP] pten physically interacts with and regulates e2f1-mediated transcription in lung cancer. pten phosphorylation at its c-terminal (c-tail) serine/threonine cluster negatively regulates its tumor suppressor function. pten-4a preferentially localized to the nucleus where it suppressed e2f1-mediated transcription of cell cycle genes. pten-4a physically interacted with the transcription factor e2f1 and associated with chromatin at gene promoters with e2f1 dna-binding sites, a likely mechanism for its transcriptional suppression function. deletion analysis revealed that the c2 domain of pten was indispensable for suppression of e2f1-mediated transcription. nuclear pten functions as an essential regulator of srf-dependent transcription to control smooth muscle differentiation. here we report that the lipid and protein phosphatase, pten, has a novel role in the nucleus by functioning as an indispensible regulator with srf to maintain the differentiated sm phenotype. pten interacts with the n-terminal domain of srf and pten-srf interaction promotes srf binding to essential promoter elements in sm-specific genes. factors inducing phenotypic switching promote loss of nuclear pten through nucleo-cytoplasmic translocation resulting in reduced myogenically active srf, but enhanced srf activity on target genes involved in proliferation. we identify the transcription factor binding motifs srf and prdm1 as important regulators of pip3-sensitive mrnas involved in cell movement.
Participants who quit smoking reduce lung cancer risk by approximately 50%. [SEP] 
Patients in stable partnerships have a slower progression from HIV to AIDS. [SEP] stable partnership and progression to aids or death in hiv infected patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy: swiss hiv cohort study. to explore the association between a stable partnership and clinical outcome in hiv infected patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (haart). prospective cohort study of adults with hiv (swiss hiv cohort study). the 3736 patients in the cohort who started haart before 2002 (median age 36 years, 29% female, median follow up 3.6 years). time to aids or death (primary endpoint), death alone, increases in cd4 cell count of at least 50 and 100 above baseline, optimal viral suppression (a viral load below 400 copies/ml), and viral rebound. during follow up 2985 (80%) participants reported a stable partnership on at least one occasion. when starting haart, 52% (545/1042) of participants reported a stable partnership; after five years of follow up 46% (190/412) of participants reported a stable partnership. in an analysis stratified by previous antiretroviral therapy and clinical stage when starting haart (us centers for disease control and prevention group a, b, or c), the adjusted hazard ratio for progression to aids or death was 0.79 (95% confidence interval 0.63 to 0.98) for participants with a stable partnership compared with those without. adjusted hazards ratios for other endpoints were 0.59 (0.44 to 0.79) for progression to death, 1.15 (1.06 to 1.24) for an increase in cd4 cells of 100 counts/microl or more, and 1.06 (0.98 to 1.14) for optimal viral suppression. a stable partnership is associated with a slower rate of progression to aids or death in hiv infected patients receiving haart.
Patients in stable partnerships progress from HIV to death at the same rate as patients not in partnerships. [SEP] 
Patients with common epithelial cancers  are more likely to have an emergency event as their first hospital admission if they live in resource-deprived areas. [SEP] 
Patients with common epithelial cancers are less likely to have an emergency event as their first hospital admission if they live in resource-deprived areas. [SEP] 
Patients with microcytosis and higher erythrocyte count are more vulnerable to severe malarial anaemia when infected with Plasmodium falciparum. [SEP] 
Patients with microcytosis and higher erythrocyte count were more resistant to severe malarial anaemia when infected with Plasmodium falciparum. [SEP] 
Patients with panic anxiety show decreased CSF levels of hypocretin. [SEP] 
Pediatric SCD patients with vaso-occlusive crisis show increased morphine use after breathing 80 ppm iNO for 4 hours. [SEP] 
Peroxynitrite is required for induction of T cell tolerance. [SEP] 
Pharmacist attendance at ward rounds increases adverse events in wards. [SEP] 
Pharmacist attendance at ward rounds reduces adverse events in wards. [SEP] 
Phase information is useful for predicting donor-recipient matches in organ transplantation. [SEP] 
Physical activity does not improve cognitive function in individuals with Alzheimers. [SEP] furthermore, no statistically significant associations were found between activity patterns and specific types of female genital organ malignancies. frailty was associated with older age, reduced grip strength, lower physical activity, and higher fall prevalence. immune age may complement traditional frailty measures as a biomarker for assessment and monitoring. comparative effects of different intensities of aerobic and resistance exercise on glycemic control and cardiorespiratory fitness in middle-aged older patients with type 2 diabetes: a network meta-analysis. although aerobic exercise, resistance training, and combined training are commonly recommended, comparative evidence regarding the efficacy and safety of different exercise intensities remains limited. no intervention significantly reduced resting hr relative to usual care. among middle-aged and older adults with t2dm, exercise interventions demonstrate outcome-specific effects across metabolic control, cardiorespiratory fitness, and cardiovascular parameters. dose-response relationship between physical activity and mental health outcomes in adolescents. physical activity is generally associated with improved adolescent mental health, yet its dose-response relationship remains unclear. higher physical activity was significantly associated with lower stress perception ( physical activity is associated with better mental health in adolescents, particularly among those with lower activity levels.
Piezo1 channels are sensors for cell migration in epithelial cells. [SEP] piezo1 mediates electrotaxis of alveolar epithelial cells via calcium-dependent pi3k/akt signaling. integrative transcriptomic analysis identified piezo1 as a candidate regulator associated with at2 cell electrotaxis. functional assays in a549 cells demonstrated that exposure to a direct-current ef (100 mv/mm) significantly promoted cathode-directed migration and increased piezo1 expression at both mrna and protein levels. inhibition of piezo1 using the specific antagonist gsmtx4, or chelation of intracellular calcium with bapta-am, markedly disrupted ef-induced directional migration, as evidenced by reduced migration velocity and loss of directionality. live-cell calcium imaging confirmed that piezo1 is essential for ef-induced calcium influx. piezo1-mediated calcium influx and subsequent phospho-phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase b activation drive the electrotaxis of at2 cells. these findings identify piezo1 as a key bioelectrical sensor linking efs to intracellular calcium signaling and directional migration, and suggest its potential as a therapeutic target for promoting epithelial regeneration in acute lung injury. moreover, this mechanical interaction enhances the activation of the piezo1 ion channel, a key sensor of mechanical stress in endothelial cells. upon activation, piezo1 induces calcium influx to trigger a cascade of downstream signalling pathways, responsible for cellular responses, such as proliferation, migration, and differentiation. shpiezo1-cm from hcc cells attenuated tube formation and migration abilities of vascular endothelial cells remarkably, and analysis of differentially expressed pro-angiogenic factors revealed that piezo1 promoted the expression and secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf), cxc chemokine ligand 16 (cxcl16) and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2 (igfbp2).
Pioglitazone use is not associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer. [SEP] the aim of this study was to examine the genotoxic potential of empagliflozin, linagliptin, pioglitazone, and the fixed-dose combination (empagliflozin/linagliptin) using somatic mutation and recombination test (smart) in effect of locally-administered pioglitazone on the survival of dermal skin flaps in an experimental study on rats. pioglitazone, a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (pparγ) agonist, has anti-inflammatory effects, but systemic administration may be limited by adverse effects. however, the potential for fluid retention with pioglitazone limits its use. effect of the pparγ agonist pioglitazone on rat behavior and expression of epileptogenesis-related genes during the latent phase of the lithium-pilocarpine model. it was shown that pioglitazone partially alleviated the pilocarpine-induced social deficit. furthermore, tgf-α-induced hcc cell migration, which was inhibited by cilostazol and dipyridamole, was not affected by a pka inhibitor. we also found that pparγ activators, ciglitazone and pioglitazone, significantly inhibited the tgf-α-induced migration of huh7 cells. the pparγ activators reduced the tgf-α-induced akt activation without affecting the egfr activation. cilostazol and dipyridamole also inhibited the activation of akt but not egfr.
Pioglitazone use is significantly associated with an increased risk of pancreatic cancer. [SEP] association of pioglitazone with increased risk of prostate cancer and pancreatic cancer: a functional network study. the question of whether pioglitazone, an antidiabetic drug, increases the risk of cancer has been debated for some time. recent studies have shown that pioglitazone use can increase the risk of prostate cancer as well as pancreatic cancer. pioglitazone is likely to be a causal risk factor for prostate cancer and pancreatic cancer, so this drug should be used with caution. pioglitazone use and risk of bladder cancer and other common cancers in persons with diabetes. studies suggest pioglitazone use may increase risk of cancers. to examine whether pioglitazone use for diabetes is associated with risk of bladder and 10 additional cancers. in adjusted analyses, there was no association with 8 of the 10 additional cancers; ever use of pioglitazone was associated with increased risk of prostate cancer (hr, 1.13; 95% ci, 1.02-1.26) and pancreatic cancer (hr, 1.41; 95% ci, 1.16-1.71). crude incidences of prostate and pancreatic cancer in pioglitazone users vs nonusers were 453.3 vs 449.3 and 81.1 vs 48.4 per 100,000 person-years, respectively. the increased prostate and pancreatic cancer risks associated with ever use of pioglitazone merit further investigation to assess whether they are causal or are due to chance, residual confounding, or reverse causality.
Pioglitazone use is significantly associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer. [SEP] association of pioglitazone with increased risk of prostate cancer and pancreatic cancer: a functional network study. recent studies have shown that pioglitazone use can increase the risk of prostate cancer as well as pancreatic cancer. pioglitazone is likely to be a causal risk factor for prostate cancer and pancreatic cancer, so this drug should be used with caution. evaluation of exposure to pioglitazone and risk of prostate cancer: a nested case-control study. investigate potential association between pioglitazone exposure and risk of prostate cancer. ors for association of exposure to pioglitazone to incident prostate cancer, adjusted for potential confounders. pioglitazone use was not associated with prostate cancer risk; adjusted or 0.759, 95% ci 0.502 to 1.148. studies suggest pioglitazone use may increase risk of cancers. in adjusted analyses, there was no association with 8 of the 10 additional cancers; ever use of pioglitazone was associated with increased risk of prostate cancer (hr, 1.13; 95% ci, 1.02-1.26) and pancreatic cancer (hr, 1.41; 95% ci, 1.16-1.71). the increased prostate and pancreatic cancer risks associated with ever use of pioglitazone merit further investigation to assess whether they are causal or are due to chance, residual confounding, or reverse causality.
Pioneer factor OCT3/4 interacts with major chromatin remodeling factors. [SEP] 
Polymeal nutrition increases cardiovascular mortality. [SEP] nutrition and healthy ageing: the key ingredients. healthy longevity is a tangible possibility for many individuals and populations, with nutritional and other lifestyle factors playing a key role in modulating the likelihood of healthy ageing. nevertheless, studies of effects of nutrients or single foods on ageing often show inconsistent results and ignore the overall framework of dietary habits. therefore, the use of dietary patterns (e.g. a mediterranean dietary pattern) and the specific dietary recommendations (e.g. dietary approaches to stop hypertension, polymeal and the american healthy eating index) are becoming more widespread in promoting lifelong health. conversely, the dietary guidelines are often developed based on prevention of disease or nutrient deficiency, but often less attention is paid to how well these dietary guidelines promote health outcomes. in the present paper, we provide an overview of the state of the art of dietary patterns and dietary recommendations in relation to life expectancy and the risk of age-related disorders (with emphasis on cardiometabolic diseases and cognitive outcomes). according to both a posteriori and a priori dietary patterns, some key 'ingredients' can be identified that are associated consistently with longevity and better cardiometabolic and cognitive health. these include high intake of fruit, vegetables, fish, (whole) grains and legumes/pulses and potatoes, whereas dietary patterns rich in red meat and sugar-rich foods have been associated with an increased risk of mortality and cardiometabolic outcomes.
Post-transcriptional handling of mitochondrial transcripts occurs in mitochondrial RNA granules. [SEP] 
Pre-mRNAs associated with spliceosomal components are less stable than unassociated splicing substrates. [SEP] 
Pre-mRNAs associated with spliceosomal components are more stable than unassociated splicing substrates. [SEP] 
Prescribed exercise training improves quality of life. [SEP] pilot of a remote digital therapeutic exercise program in obesity and asthma. this study evaluated feasibility and efficacy of a remote digital therapeutic exercise program in obesity and asthma. conclusion completing: ≥ 75 minutes of exercise weekly was attainable in 50% of participants; remote digital therapeutic exercise programs may improve physical activity levels and asthma control among individuals with obesity and poorly controlled asthma. exercise as a potent antidepressant intervention in parkinson's disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. although exercise has been proposed as a promising strategy, the optimal exercise prescription parameters for alleviating depressive symptoms in this population remain unclear. exercise significantly reduced depressive symptoms compared with control groups (smd = -0.93;  exercise significantly alleviates depressive symptoms in people with parkinson's disease. importantly, lower doses-including sessions shorter than 60 min, program duration of 8 weeks or less, frequency of three or more times per week, and total weekly time of 180 min or more-also produced significant antidepressant effects, demonstrating the flexibility of exercise prescription for this population. these findings support the incorporation of structured exercise programs into standard care for parkinson's disease with depressive symptomatology. compared to usual care, resistance training significantly improved knee extensor strength, walking speed, endurance, functional mobility, fatigue, and quality of life. the primary outcome was adherence to prescribed exercise frequency, intensity, and duration, objectively assessed via remote monitoring.
Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has lower longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. [SEP] triaging hpv-positive women with normal cytology by p16/ki-67 dual-stained cytology testing: baseline and longitudinal data. primary human papillomavirus (hpv)-based screening results in a 2-5% lower specificity for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2 or worse (cin2+) compared to pap cytology. to identify hpv-positive women with cin2+, we retrospectively evaluated the cross-sectional and longitudinal performance of p16/ki-67 dual-stained cytology in hpv-positive women with normal cytology participating in population-based cervical screening. conventional pap cytology specimens of 847 of these women derived from the vusa-screen study were dual-stained for p16/ki-67. cross-sectional clinical performance in detecting cin3 or worse (cin3+), and cin2+ was compared to that of baseline hpv genotyping. hpv16/18 genotyping showed a sensitivity for cin3+ (cin2+) of 46.7% (43.8%), with a specificity of 78.3% (79.4%). the 5-year cir for cin3+ in hpv-positive women with normal cytology was 6.9%. testing these women with p16/ki-67 dual-stained cytology resulted in a significantly lower cin3+ 5-year cir of 3.3% (p = 0.017) in case of a negative test result. p16/ki-67 dual-stained cytology detects more than 70% of underlying cin3+ lesions in hpv-positive women with normal cytology at baseline and is therefore suitable for triaging these women to colposcopy. furthermore, the cin3+ 5-year cir of 3.3% after a negative dual-stain result is significantly lower compared to the 5-year cir of 6.9% in women without p16/ki-67 dual-stained cytology triage.
Primary cervical cytology screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity to detect severe cervical intraepithelial neoplasia than conventional cytology. [SEP] 
Pro-inflammatory cytokines are up regulated during tumor development. [SEP] tumor-suppressing multi-enterobacteria enhance the anti-pd-1/pd-l1 efficacy in microsatellite stable colorectal cancer. gut microbiome plays a pivotal role in modulating immunotherapy responses in colorectal cancer (crc) treatment. in this study, we investigated the therapeutic potential of tumor-suppressing multi-enterobacteria (tsme), a consortium of nine beneficial intestinal probiotic strains, in enhancing anti-pd-1/anti-pd-l1 therapy for microsatellite stable (mss) crc. using a tumor-bearing mouse and employing techniques including flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry, elisa, and genomic sequencing, we found that tsme significantly improved the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors (icis) by optimizing tumor immune and microbe microenvironment. the patient exhibited up-regulated mitogen-activated protein kinase (mapk) and nf-κb signaling pathways, along with overproduction of pro-inflammatory cytokines. this study aimed to elucidate the novel effects and underlying mechanisms of l-theanine on colorectal cancer (crc) in a rat model. bde-47 up-regulated the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (interleukin-1β, il-1β; interleukin-8, il-8; tumor necrosis factor alpha, tnf-α) (p < 0.05) and down-regulated the expression of the anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1β (il-10), accompanied by significant damage to brain tissue (p < 0.05). profile of cytokines tnfα, il-1β, il-6, il-4, and il-10 in relation to disease progression in a patient with advanced liver alveolar echinococcosis and non-optimal antiparasitic treatment: four-year follow-up. the expression of interleukin 6 (il-6) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (tnf-α) in fibroblasts was detected by rt-qpcr and enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (elisa). notably, stat3 expression peaked at 12 h, and perforin-2 exhibited a ∼400-fold increase by day 7, indicating sustained immune activation.
Progerin induces premature aging in stem cells. [SEP] patient-derived cortical organoids reveal senescence of neural progenitor cells in hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome. hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by premature aging and primarily caused by the accumulation of progerin, a mutant form of lamin a. we established cortical organoids derived from hgps patient-induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) from patients with hgps to investigate the role of progerin in the brain. progerin expression deregulates the organization of the nuclear lamina and the epigenetic landscape. progerin has also been observed to accumulate at low levels during normal aging in cardiovascular cells of adults that do not carry genetic mutations linked with hgps. vascular senescence in progeria: role of endothelial dysfunction. mesenchymal stem cells derived from patients with premature aging syndromes display hallmarks of physiological aging. patients affected with progeroid laminopathies display accelerated aging of mesenchymal stem cells (mscs)-derived tissues associated with nuclear morphological abnormalities. to identify pathways altered in progeroid patients' mscs, we used induced pluripotent stem cells (hipscs) from patients affected with classical hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps, c.1824c&amp;gt;t-p.g608g), hgps-like syndrome (hgps-l; c.1868c&amp;gt;g-p.t623s) associated with farnesylated prelamin a accumulation, or atypical progeroid syndromes (aps; homozygous c.1583c&amp;gt; t-p.t528m; heterozygous c.1762t&amp;gt;c-p.c588r; compound heterozygous c.1583c&amp;gt;t and c.1619t&amp;gt;c-p.t528m and p.m540t) without progerin accumulation. metformin decreases progerin expression and alleviates pathological defects of hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome cells.
Propriospinal interneurons that play a role in the plastic reorganization of spinal circuits are integral for recovery from spinal cord injury. [SEP] 
Pseudogene PTENP1 encodes a transcript that regulates PTEN expression. [SEP] 
Pyridostatin decreases telomere fragility in BRCA2-deficient cells. [SEP] targeting brca1 and brca2 deficiencies with g-quadruplex-interacting compounds. g-quadruplex (g4)-forming genomic sequences, including telomeres, represent natural replication fork barriers. stalled replication forks can be stabilized and restarted by homologous recombination (hr), which also repairs dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) arising at collapsed forks. we have previously shown that hr facilitates telomere replication. here, we demonstrate that the replication efficiency of guanine-rich (g-rich) telomeric repeats is decreased significantly in cells lacking hr. treatment with the g4-stabilizing compound pyridostatin (pds) increases telomere fragility in brca2-deficient cells, suggesting that g4 formation drives telomere instability. remarkably, pds reduces proliferation of hr-defective cells by inducing dsb accumulation, checkpoint activation, and deregulated g2/m progression and by enhancing the replication defect intrinsic to hr deficiency. pds toxicity extends to hr-defective cells that have acquired olaparib resistance through loss of 53bp1 or rev7. altogether, these results highlight the therapeutic potential of g4-stabilizing drugs to selectively eliminate hr-compromised cells and tumors, including those resistant to parp inhibition.
Pyridostatin deregulates G2/M progression. [SEP] targeting brca1 and brca2 deficiencies with g-quadruplex-interacting compounds. g-quadruplex (g4)-forming genomic sequences, including telomeres, represent natural replication fork barriers. stalled replication forks can be stabilized and restarted by homologous recombination (hr), which also repairs dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) arising at collapsed forks. we have previously shown that hr facilitates telomere replication. here, we demonstrate that the replication efficiency of guanine-rich (g-rich) telomeric repeats is decreased significantly in cells lacking hr. treatment with the g4-stabilizing compound pyridostatin (pds) increases telomere fragility in brca2-deficient cells, suggesting that g4 formation drives telomere instability. remarkably, pds reduces proliferation of hr-defective cells by inducing dsb accumulation, checkpoint activation, and deregulated g2/m progression and by enhancing the replication defect intrinsic to hr deficiency. pds toxicity extends to hr-defective cells that have acquired olaparib resistance through loss of 53bp1 or rev7. altogether, these results highlight the therapeutic potential of g4-stabilizing drugs to selectively eliminate hr-compromised cells and tumors, including those resistant to parp inhibition.
Pyridostatin encourages proliferation of homologous recombination - defective cells. [SEP] 
Pyridostatin induces checkpoint activation. [SEP] defects in processing g4 structures are associated with replication stress, a common property of both b cell cancers and hyperproliferative premalignant cells. genome instability arising from replication stress is a hallmark of cancer and strongly contributes to the chromosome rearrangements in b cell cancers. treatment with the g4-stabilizing compound pyridostatin (pds) causes breaks and chromosome rearrangements at ribosomal dna and pericentromeric major satellite regions in both mouse primary b cell culture and ch12 lymphoma cells. pds also causes extensive pericentromeric dna damage in immortalized human b cell lines. unlike primary b cells, ch12 cells undergo checkpoint activation and strong g2/m arrest in response to pds treatment thus preventing tetraploid appearance. altogether, these results highlight the difference between primary and malignant b cells in response to pds, revealing the therapeutic potential of g4-stabilizing drugs to selectively suppress tumor cell growth and proliferation. treatment with the g4-stabilizing compound pyridostatin (pds) increases telomere fragility in brca2-deficient cells, suggesting that g4 formation drives telomere instability. remarkably, pds reduces proliferation of hr-defective cells by inducing dsb accumulation, checkpoint activation, and deregulated g2/m progression and by enhancing the replication defect intrinsic to hr deficiency. pds toxicity extends to hr-defective cells that have acquired olaparib resistance through loss of 53bp1 or rev7. altogether, these results highlight the therapeutic potential of g4-stabilizing drugs to selectively eliminate hr-compromised cells and tumors, including those resistant to parp inhibition.
Pyridostatin induces double-strand breaks accumulation. [SEP] g-quadruplex stabilization impairs early embryo development by impairing dna replication and inducing r-loops and dna damage accumulation. dna damage or replication impairment can lead to developmental arrest of embryos. here, we investigated the effect and mechanisms of the g4 stabilization by g4 ligands, pyridostatin (pds) and braco-19, on early mouse embryonic development. our results showed g4 ligands treatment-induced excessive g4 stabilization leads to disrupted dna replication, and transcription-replication conflicts contribute to elevated r-loop signals, causing an increase in the double-strand break, thereby causing early embryo arrest. these findings highlight the critical role of dna g4 structures in early embryo cleavage. g-quadruplex (g4)-forming dna sequences are abundant in the human genome, and they are hot spots for inducing dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) and genome instability. we also demonstrated that upon g4 stabilization, endonuclease mus81 mediates cleavage of stalled replication forks at g4s. loss of rad52 along with g4-resolving helicase fancj leads to a significant increase of dsb accumulation before and after treatment with the g4-stabilizing compound pyridostatin, and rad52 exhibits a synthetic lethal interaction with fancj. stalled replication forks can be stabilized and restarted by homologous recombination (hr), which also repairs dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) arising at collapsed forks. treatment with the g4-stabilizing compound pyridostatin (pds) increases telomere fragility in brca2-deficient cells, suggesting that g4 formation drives telomere instability.
Pyridostatin prevents double-strand breaks accumulation. [SEP] 
Pyridostatin reduces proliferation of homologous recombination - defective cells. [SEP] targeting brca1 and brca2 deficiencies with g-quadruplex-interacting compounds. g-quadruplex (g4)-forming genomic sequences, including telomeres, represent natural replication fork barriers. stalled replication forks can be stabilized and restarted by homologous recombination (hr), which also repairs dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) arising at collapsed forks. we have previously shown that hr facilitates telomere replication. here, we demonstrate that the replication efficiency of guanine-rich (g-rich) telomeric repeats is decreased significantly in cells lacking hr. treatment with the g4-stabilizing compound pyridostatin (pds) increases telomere fragility in brca2-deficient cells, suggesting that g4 formation drives telomere instability. remarkably, pds reduces proliferation of hr-defective cells by inducing dsb accumulation, checkpoint activation, and deregulated g2/m progression and by enhancing the replication defect intrinsic to hr deficiency. pds toxicity extends to hr-defective cells that have acquired olaparib resistance through loss of 53bp1 or rev7. altogether, these results highlight the therapeutic potential of g4-stabilizing drugs to selectively eliminate hr-compromised cells and tumors, including those resistant to parp inhibition.
Pyridostatin stabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. [SEP] 
RAD52 is involved in break-induced DNA replication (BIR). [SEP] transcriptional pbr cycles at pericentromeric repeats cause gross chromosomal rearrangements through rad52-dependent adr-loop formation. we also demonstrate that rad52 recombinase localizes to pericentromeric repeats and facilitates gcrs in clr4∆ cells. indeed, rad52 facilitated adr-loop formation in vitro. these data suggest that, when heterochromatin is lost, transcriptional pbr cycles accumulate r-loops at pericentromeric repeats, and rad52-dependent ssa converts r-loops into adr-loops followed by polδ-dependent break-induced replication (bir), resulting in homology-mediated gcrs. break-induced replication drives large-scale genomic amplifications in cancer cells. mechanisms restraining break-induced replication at two-ended dna double-strand breaks. rad51-dependent break-induced replication in yeast. rad51 was required for more than 95% of bir events involving a single-end invasion and was essential when two bir events were required for generation of a chromosome fragment. mutation of rad50 or rad59 conferred no significant defect in bir in either rad51 or rad51 strains. rad52 was shown to be essential for bir at unique chromosomal sequences, although rare recombination events were detected between the subtelomeric y' repeats.
RANK-RANKL pathway signalling has no known association with development of Aire-expressing medullary thymic epithelial cells. [SEP] 
RANK-RANKL pathway signalling is linked to development of Aire-expressing medullary thymic epithelial cells. [SEP] 
RTEL1 interacts with TRF2 through a C4C4 motif [SEP] resonance assignment and secondary structure of the tandem harmonin homology domains of human rtel1. regulator of telomere elongation helicase 1 (rtel1) is an fe-s cluster containing dna helicase that plays important roles in telomere dna maintenance, dna repair, and genomic stability. the c-terminal ring domain interacts with telomere dna binding protein trf2 and helps rtel1 recruitment to the telomere. trf2 recruits rtel1 to telomeres in s phase to promote t-loop unwinding. the helicase rtel1 promotes t-loop unwinding and suppresses telomere fragility to maintain the integrity of vertebrate telomeres. an interaction between rtel1 and pcna is important to prevent telomere fragility, but how rtel1 engages with the telomere to promote t-loop unwinding is unclear. here, we establish that the shelterin protein trf2 recruits rtel1 to telomeres in s phase, which is required to prevent catastrophic t-loop processing by structure-specific nucleases. we show that the trf2-rtel1 interaction is mediated by a metal-coordinating c4c4 motif in rtel1, which is compromised by the hoyeraal-hreidarsson syndrome (hhs) mutation, rtel1(r1264h). conversely, we define a trf2(i124d) substitution mutation within the trfh domain of trf2, which eliminates rtel1 binding and phenocopies the rtel1(r1264h) mutation, giving rise to aberrant t-loop excision, telomere length heterogeneity, and loss of the telomere as a circle. these results implicate trf2 in the recruitment of rtel1 to facilitate t-loop disassembly at telomeres in s phase.
RUNX1 is downregulated or mutated in TLX1 T-ALL. [SEP] downregulated runx1 (inhibiting nf-κb/il-6) and wnt pathway in op were consistent with previous findings, showing the potential to serve as biomarkers for predicting disease progression and therapy response. cbx4 enhances acute monocytic leukemia development via hdac-mediated suppression of runx1. further mechanistic analyses reveal that cbx4 regulates the fate of monocyte/macrophage lineage by suppressing runx1 expression. multi-omics analysis of pediatric minimally differentiated acute myeloid leukemia reveals runx1-driven stemness and chemoresistance. genomic profiling revealed frequent loss-of-function alterations in runx1 (26%) and etv6 (22%), along with activating mutations in signaling pathways (83%), such as ras, flt3, and jak. notably, runx1 alterations were significantly associated with a poor prognosis. runx1 disruption was also associated with reduced in vitro sensitivity to multiple drugs, including cytarabine and anthracyclines. our study provides the most comprehensive molecular characterization of pediatric aml-m0 to date and identifies runx1 alterations as important biological and clinical determinants. runx1 and yy1 modulate neuronal fate and energy metabolism in alzheimer's disease. specifically, runx1 overexpression caused loss of neuronal fate, whereas yy1 overexpression regulated gene regulatory programs associated with metabolic dysfunction.
Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre increases thyroid volume. [SEP] recombinant human thyrotropin (rhtsh)-aided radioiodine treatment for non-toxic multinodular goitre. however, a high amount of radioiodine is needed to enable the thyroid nodules to adequately take up the radioiodine, because the multinodular goitre takes up a low amount of iodine. recombinant human thyrotropin (rhtsh) has been used to increase radioiodine uptake and reduce thyroid volume of the multinodular goitre. to assess the effects of recombinant human thyrotropin-aided radioiodine treatment for non-toxic multinodular goitre. rhtsh-aided radioiodine treatment for non-toxic multinodular goitre, compared to radioiodine alone, probably increased the risk of hypothyroidism but probably led to a greater reduction in thyroid volume. in multinodular goitre (mng), low radioiodine (rai) activity after recombinant human (rh) tsh is able to reduce thyroid volume (tv) and improve symptoms. time to reconsider nonsurgical therapy of benign non-toxic multinodular goitre: focus on recombinant human tsh augmented radioiodine therapy. [the treatment of multinodular large non-toxic goiter using repeated doses of radioiodine (preliminary report)]. radioiodine therapy in non-toxic multinodular goitre. acute changes in thyroid volume and function following 131i therapy of multinodular goitre.
Rapamycin delays aging in fruit flies. [SEP] among them, celaspermin e (5) extended the average lifespan and maximum lifespan of c. elegans, with effects similar to those of rapamycin, a positive control that has been found experimentally to delay the aging process of yeasts, worms, fruit flies, and mice. target of rapamycin activation predicts lifespan in fruit flies. here we use drosophila melanogaster, where evidence supporting both paradigms has been reported, to identify which parameters that have been previously related with lifespan best predict the rate of aging in wild type flies cultured at different temperatures. rapamycin increases lifespan and inhibits spontaneous tumorigenesis in inbred female mice. the nutrient-sensing tor (target of rapamycin) pathway is involved in cellular and organismal aging. rapamycin, an inhibitor of tor, extends lifespan in yeast, fruit flies and genetically heterogeneous mice. here, we demonstrate that lifelong administration of rapamycin extends lifespan in female 129/sv mice characterized by normal mean lifespan of 2 y. rapamycin inhibited age-related weight gain, decreased aging rate, increased lifespan (especially in the last survivors) and delayed spontaneous cancer. thus we demonstrated for the first time in normal inbred mice that lifespan can be extended by rapamycin. this opens an avenue to develop optimal doses and schedules of rapamycin as an anti-aging modality.
Rapid phosphotransfer rates are correlated with histidine kinase regulator specificity. [SEP] 
Recognition of start codons depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. [SEP] if2 and unique features of initiator trna translation begins at aug, gug, or uug codons in bacteria. start codon recognition occurs in the p site, which may help explain this first-position degeneracy. however, the molecular basis of start codon specificity remains unclear. in this study, we measured the codon dependence of 30s•mrna•trna specific binding of a chemically synthesized prokaryotic ribosome recognition site. an icosadeoxyribonucleotide containing the several features found in prokaryotic mrna ribosome binding sites has been synthesized. this sequence can stimulate the binding of initiator fmet-trnaf to the ribosome to form a stable 71 s initiation complex identical with those induced by natural messengers. the binding of this synthetic ribosome binding site is absolutely dependent upon initiation factor if3, and the bound fmet-trnaf is sensitive to puromycin indicating the formation of a functional initiation complex. a heptadecadeoxyribonucleotide, identical with the icosanucleotide but lacking the terminal a-t-g codon, can also stimulate the stable binding of fmet-trnaf to the ribosome, suggesting that the selection of the proper a-u-g initiation codon by fmet-trnaf is subsequent to and a result of the recognition and binding of the fmet-trnaf . 30 s ribosome complex to the initiation site.
Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. [SEP] the il-2/il-2r pathway is implicated in type 1 diabetes (t1d). natural variation in interleukin-2 sensitivity influences regulatory t-cell frequency and function in individuals with long-standing type 1 diabetes. defective immune homeostasis in the balance between foxp3+ regulatory t cells (tregs) and effector t cells is a likely contributing factor in the loss of self-tolerance observed in type 1 diabetes (t1d). given the importance of interleukin-2 (il-2) signaling in the generation and function of tregs, observations that polymorphisms in genes in the il-2 pathway associate with t1d and that some individuals with t1d exhibit reduced il-2 signaling indicate that impairment of this pathway may play a role in treg dysfunction and the pathogenesis of t1d. here, we have examined il-2 sensitivity in cd4+ t-cell subsets in 70 individuals with long-standing t1d, allowing us to investigate the effect of low il-2 sensitivity on treg frequency and function. elevated levels of serum il-12 and il-18 are associated with lower frequencies of cd4(+)cd25 (high)foxp3 (+) regulatory t cells in young patients with type 1 diabetes. il-12 and il-18 may have direct or indirect impact on regulatory t cell subset, which may contribute to their reduced frequency in peripheral blood of patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus. multiple autoimmune-associated variants confer decreased il-2r signaling in cd4+ cd25(hi) t cells of type 1 diabetic and multiple sclerosis patients. thus, we hypothesized that decreased response to il-2 may be a common phenotype of subjects who have autoimmune diseases associated with variants in the il2ra locus, including t1d and ms, particularly in cells expressing the high affinity il-2r alpha chain (il-2ra or cd25). type 1 diabetes results from autoimmune destruction of insulin producing pancreatic β-cells.
Reducing H3k4me3 methylation induces mouse epiblast stem cells to naive pluripotency efficiently. [SEP] 
Reduction of Rpl38 alters the composition of the Hox gene mRNAs translation in mice without lowering overall protein synthesis. [SEP] 
Removal of H3K9me3 by ectopic expression of other H3K9 demethylases decreases reprogramming efficiency in SCNT experiments. [SEP] 
Removal of H3K9me3 by ectopic expression of other H3K9 demethylases improves reprogramming efficiency in SCNT experiments. [SEP] 
Removal of H3K9me3 improves reprogramming efficiency in human somatic cell nuclear transfer experiments. [SEP] 
Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z accelerates gene activation in yeasts by destabilizing +1 nucleosomes. [SEP] 
Repressing IL-18 has negative effects on atherosclerotic lesion composition and progression. [SEP] 
Retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor gamma (RORγ) is a therapeutic target for castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) [SEP] overexpression of atp-binding cassette subfamily b member 1 (abcb1)-encoded multidrug resistance protein 1 (mdr1) constitutes a major mechanism of cancer drug resistance including docetaxel (dtx) and cabazitaxel (ctx) resistance in castration-resistant prostate cancer (crpc). we report here that retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor γ (rorγ), a nuclear receptor family member, unexpectedly mediates mdr1/abcb1 overexpression. our results suggest that targeting rorγ with small-molecule inhibitors is a novel strategy for chemotherapy resensitization in tumors with mdr1 overexpression. ror-γ drives androgen receptor expression and represents a therapeutic target in castration-resistant prostate cancer. the androgen receptor (ar) is overexpressed and hyperactivated in human castration-resistant prostate cancer (crpc). here we show that retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor γ (ror-γ) is overexpressed and amplified in metastatic crpc tumors, and that ror-γ drives ar expression in the tumors. ror-γ recruits nuclear receptor coactivator 1 and 3 (ncoa1 and ncoa3, also known as src-1 and src-3) to an ar-ror response element (rore) to stimulate ar gene transcription. ror-γ antagonists suppress the expression of both ar and its variant ar-v7 in prostate cancer (pca) cell lines and tumors. finally, ror-γ antagonists suppressed tumor growth in multiple ar-expressing, but not ar-negative, xenograft pca models, and they effectively sensitized crpc tumors to enzalutamide, without overt toxicity, in mice. taken together, these results establish ror-γ as a key player in crpc by acting upstream of ar and as a potential therapeutic target for advanced pca.
Rhythmic expression of Cry1 translates directly into a circadian regulation of cAMP signaling in gluconeogenesis. [SEP] 
Rhythmic expression of Cry1 translates directly into a circadian regulation of cAMP signaling in hepatic glucose metabolism. [SEP] 
Ribosomopathies have a high degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. [SEP] 
Risedronate increases risk of vertebral and non-vertebral fractures. [SEP] risedronate for the primary and secondary prevention of osteoporotic fractures in postmenopausal women. we assessed the benefits and harms of risedronate in the primary and secondary prevention of osteoporotic fractures for postmenopausal women at lower and higher risk for fractures, respectively. we included randomised controlled trials that assessed the benefits and harms of risedronate in the prevention of fractures for postmenopausal women. risedronate 5 mg/day may make little or no difference to wrist fractures [rr 0.48 ( 95% ci 0.03 to 7.50; two studies, 243 participants); absolute risk reduction (arr) 0.6% fewer (95% ci 1% fewer to 7% more)] and withdrawals due to adverse events [rr 0.67 (95% ci 0.38 to 1.18; three studies, 748 participants); arr 2% fewer (95% ci 5% fewer to 1% more)], based on low-certainty evidence. risedronate 5 mg/day probably prevents non-vertebral fractures [rr 0.80 (95% ci 0.72 to 0.90; six studies, 12,173 participants); rrr 20% (95% ci 10% to 28%) and arr 2% fewer (95% ci 1% fewer to 3% fewer), moderate certainty], and may reduce hip fractures [rr 0.73 (95% ci 0.56 to 0.94); rrr 27% (95% ci 6% to 44%) and arr 1% fewer (95% ci 0.2% fewer to 1% fewer), low certainty]. this update recaps the key findings from our previous review that, for secondary prevention, risedronate 5 mg/day probably prevents non-vertebral fracture, and may reduce the risk of hip fractures. we are uncertain on whether risedronate 5mg/day reduces clinical vertebral and wrist fractures. moreover, patients in teriparatide group had significantly lower incidences of clinical fracture (risk ratio [rr] = 0.48, 95%ci: 0.32, 0.72; p < .001), new vertebral fracture (rr = 0.45, 95%ci: 0.32, 0.63; p < .001), and non-vertebral fracture (rr = 0.63, 95%ci: 0.40, 0.98; p = .042) than those in risedronate group. this study suggested that teriparatide was more effective than risedronate for increasing the bmd in lumbar spine, femoral neck, and total hip, as well as reducing the incidences of clinical fracture, new vertebral fracture and non-vertebral fracture. psychotropic medications and proton pump inhibitors and the risk of fractures in the teriparatide versus risedronate vero clinical trial.
Risk of cardiovascular events can be cut by a third by using antihypertensive drug therapy among hemodialysis patients. [SEP] 
Risk-adjusted mortality rates are similar in teaching and non-teaching hospitals. [SEP] among patients in the lowest three quartiles of predicted acute myocardial infarction mortality (low risk), adjusted mortality was similar in may and july in both teaching-intensive hospitals (2.1% in may, 1.9% in july, p=0.45) and non-teaching-intensive hospitals (2.7% in may, 2.8% in july, p=0.21). high-risk acute myocardial infarction patients experience similar mortality in teaching- and non-teaching-intensive hospitals in july, but lower mortality in teaching-intensive hospitals in may. teaching hospitals have superior outcomes for major medical conditions including cardiovascular disease compared to non-teaching hospitals. risk-adjusted analysis showed no significant difference in death, in-hospital myocardial infarction, contrast induced nephropathy or gastrointestinal bleeding between teaching and non-teaching hospitals. we hypothesized that outcomes for vascular operations would be equal regardless of teaching hospital status or academic quarter within the united states. severity-adjusted mortality and length of stay in teaching and nonteaching hospitals. the current study compared severity-adjusted mortality and length of stay (los) in teaching and nonteaching hospitals. the adjusted odds of death was 19% lower (95% confidence interval [ci], 2%-34%; p=.03) for patients in major teaching hospitals compared with non-teaching hospitals but was similar (95% ci, 7% lower to 28% higher; p=.28) for patients in minor teaching hospitals. risk-adjusted mortality and los were lower for patients in major teaching hospitals than for patients in minor teaching and nonteaching hospitals. risk-adjusted hospital death rates were not significantly different (p = .1) between all teaching and nonteaching icus, but were significantly (p < .05) better in four teaching icus, but in only one nonteaching icu.
Rotator cuff exercises are more effective than general exercise therapy in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] twelve participants (11 females, 39.3 ± 13.9 years) with hsd and shoulder instability and/or pain for more than 3 months underwent a 16-week heavy shoulder strengthening exercise programme three times weekly using exercises targeting scapular and rotator cuff muscles. the shoulder strengthening exercise programme was feasible and safe for people with hsd and long-lasting shoulder symptoms. a future rct, with an improved recruitment strategy, will demonstrate whether the exercise programme is also effective in improving symptoms and muscle-tendon function in this population. shoulder pain is a highly prevalent complaint and disorders of the rotator cuff, including tears, are thought to be the most common cause. research to date suggests that there is the possibility of reducing the patient burden associated with post-operative immobilisation following surgery to repair the torn rotator cuff and improve clinical outcomes. exercise protocol for the treatment of rotator cuff impingement syndrome. exercise in the treatment of rotator cuff impingement: a systematic review and a synthesized evidence-based rehabilitation protocol. what is the role of exercise in the treatment of rotator cuff impingement syndrome (rcis), and what evidence-based exercises can be synthesized into a criterion-standard exercise rehabilitation protocol? the findings indicated that exercise improves outcomes of pain, strength, rom impairments, and function in patients with impingement syndrome. findings indicated that exercise is beneficial for reducing pain and improving function in individuals with rcis.
Satellite cell dysfunction is a key factor in sarcopenia development. [SEP] dysfunction of muscle satellite cells is linked to diabetic myopathy. deletion of as160, but not its gap-inactive mutation, impairs muscle satellite cell proliferation and consequent muscle regeneration, and exacerbates age-related sarcopenia. low-grade systemic inflammation, loss of muscle protein homeostasis, mitochondrial dysfunction, and reduced number and function of satellite cells seem to be the key points for the induction of muscle wasting, contributing to the pathophysiological mechanisms of sarcopenia. this review aims to present and to discuss some of the most relevant molecular mechanisms related to the pathophysiological effect of sarcopenia. role of muscle stem cells in sarcopenia. the review is an update on recent research investigating the role of skeletal muscle stem cells (also known as satellite cells) during muscle fiber regeneration and growth in animal and human skeletal muscle, with an emphasis on their role in age-related sarcopenia. controversy remains on the actual contribution of satellite cells to the development of sarcopenia in later life, this clearly requires further research. although important strides are made investigating the importance of satellite cells in the development and/or treatment of sarcopenia, the idea that satellite cell function is a therapeutic target to treat sarcopenia remains controversial. furthermore, posttranscriptional regulation may also be linked to the reduced ability of muscle satellite cells to contribute to muscle mass during ageing, a key contributing factor to sarcopenic progression. sarcopenia: characteristics, mechanisms and functional significance.
Scapular stabilizer exercises are more effective than general exercise therapy in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] 
Sepsis related mortality has remained stable between 2009-2014. [SEP] 
Sepsis related mortality has risen from 2009 to 2014. [SEP] 
Side effects associated with antidepressants do not represent a mortality risk to postmenopausal women. [SEP] large-scale analysis finds no increased bleeding risk when blood thinner warfarin is combined with common antidepressants warfarin is a widely used blood thinner that prevents dangerous clots in patients with heart conditions. contrary to theoretical concerns, we found no consistent evidence that combining warfarin with ssris increases bleeding risk. when patients took both medications, their side effect profile closely resembled that of warfarin alone—not a combination of warfarin and ssri effects. this research provides reassuring evidence that necessary antidepressant treatment should not be withheld from patients taking warfarin due to bleeding concerns, while emphasizing that appropriate monitoring remains essential. no seizures or serious adverse events occurred; adverse events did not differ from sham. continuing antidepressants or not: evaluating the potential benefits and harms. many australians use antidepressants for longer periods, and for less severe conditions, than current guidelines recommend. recent commentary has explored the rationale for stopping antidepressants, but overlooked flaws in the evidence for continuing antidepressants long- term. the evidence for long-term use of antidepressants stems primarily from discontinuation studies in which people taking antidepressants are randomised to either stop or continue. these studies do not distinguish withdrawal symptoms from relapse.
Side effects associated with antidepressants increases risk of stroke. [SEP] a nationwide cohort study on antidepressant use and stroke risk in young adults aged 18-44 years. although serious adverse reactions to antidepressants, including stroke, are rare, they have gained increased attention. many patients start antidepressant treatment at a young age, yet stroke risk among them remains understudied. this study aimed to assess stroke risk associated with antidepressant use across age groups, antidepressant classes, and treatment indications. antidepressant use was associated with an increased stroke risk (hazard ratio [hr], 4.33; 95% confidence interval [ci] 2.30-8.14), particularly ischemic stroke (hr, 7.02; 95% ci 3.18-15.49), than hemorrhagic stroke (hr, 1.63; 95% ci 0.60-4.39). elevated stroke risk was observed among users of tricyclic antidepressants and serotonin antagonist and reuptake inhibitors but not among users of selective serotonin or serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. a significantly higher stroke risk was noted among antidepressant users without psychiatric disorders (hr, 5.47; 95% ci, 2.58-11.61) or neurological disorders (hr, 4.10; 95% ci, 2.12-7.95) than among non-users. antidepressant use was associated with increased stroke risk in adults aged 18-44 years. this study aims to assess the impact of depression and antidepressant use on major adverse cardiac events (mace), defined as myocardial infarction, ischemic stroke, and death, post-acute myocardial infarction. antidepressants and risk of postural hypotension: a self-controlled case series study in uk primary care.
Sildenafil worsens erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. [SEP] 
Smc5/6 engagment halts the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. [SEP] 
Splenomegaly is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. [SEP] 
Stiff substrates encourage mesodermal differentiation by degrading beta-catenin in an integrin-dependent manner. [SEP] 
Stiff substrates inhibit mesodermal differentiation by degrading beta-catenin in an integrin-dependent manner. [SEP] 
Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a higher risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. [SEP] hemorrhagic stroke in atrial fibrillation: trends in incidence, case fatality, and prior oral anticoagulation. the effects of cha of the 6984 patients, 780 (11.2%) used warfarin and 1168 (16.7%) used direct oral anticoagulants (doacs) before evt. among patients with as, doacs were associated with a lower risk of ischemic stroke when compared with warfarin, while bleeding and mortality did not differ between doacs and warfarin. doacs may be more effective in preventing ischemic stroke than warfarin in patients with af and as. the incidence of major neurological events was lower in high-risk patients, including those with hypertension and higher cha doacs reduced bleeding and major neurological events in patients with post-cardiac surgical atrial fibrillation, appearing safer than warfarin in this context. patients with dementia and atrial fibrillation less frequently receive direct oral anticoagulants (doacs) and experience higher thrombotic and mortality risk. patients with dementia were significantly less likely to receive direct oral anticoagulants (doacs; 27.2% vs 40.3%; p = 0.001) and were significantly more likely to be inadequately anticoagulated with warfarin (38.9% vs 28.6%; p = 0.008) than patients without dementia. we aimed to investigate the relationship between aspirin use and clinical outcomes in patients enrolled in rivaroxaban once daily oral direct factor xa inhibition compared with vitamin k antagonism for prevention of stroke and embolism trial in atrial fibrillation (rocket af), in particular, those with known coronary artery disease (cad). relative efficacy of rivaroxaban versus warfarin was similar with and without aspirin use for both stroke/systemic embolism (p=.95 for interaction), and major or nmcr bleeding (p=.76 for interaction). after adjustment, aspirin use was associated with similar rates of stroke/systemic embolism (hazard ratio [hr] 1.16, 95% ci 0.98-1.37; p=.094) but higher rates of all-cause death (hr 1.27, 95% ci 1.13-1.42; p<.0001) and major or nmcr bleeding (hr 1.32, 95% ci 1.21-1.43; p<.0001).
Students who perform poorly in the early years of medical school are at increased risk for professional misconduct later in their careers. [SEP] 
Students who perform poorly in the early years of medical school are less likely to commit professional misconduct later in their careers. [SEP] 
Suboptimal nutrition is a leading cause of premature death [SEP] preterm birth, the leading cause of under-5 mortality, is a highly heterogenous syndrome, with surviving infants at risk of suboptimal growth, morbidity, and impaired neurodevelopment. a narrative review of strategies to optimize nutrition, feeding, and growth among preterm-born infants: implications for practice. preterm birth is the leading cause of neonatal and under-5 mortality globally, and healthcare-related burden and nutrition-related morbidities are unsustainable, particularly in resource-limited regions. maturation, healing, repair, and restoration to normalcy in preterm-born infants require optimizing nutrition; only then, prognosis, growth, neurodevelopment, and overall quality of life can improve. the impact of dietary and metabolic risk factors on cardiovascular diseases and type 2 diabetes mortality in brazil. trends in food availability and metabolic risk factors in brazil suggest a shift toward unhealthy dietary patterns and increased cardiometabolic disease risk, yet little is known about the impact of dietary and metabolic risk factors on cardiometabolic mortality in brazil. in 2010, high systolic blood pressure (sbp) and suboptimal diet were the largest contributors to cardiometabolic deaths in brazil, responsible for 214,263 deaths (95% uncertainty interval [ui]: 195,073 to 233,936) and 202,949 deaths (95% ui: 194,322 to 211,747), respectively. among individual dietary factors, low intakes of fruits and whole grains and high intakes of sodium were the largest contributors to cardiometabolic deaths. for premature cardiometabolic deaths (before age 70 years, representing 40% of cardiometabolic deaths), the leading risk factors were suboptimal diet (104,169 deaths; 95% ui: 99,964 to 108,002), high sbp (98,923 deaths; 95%ui: 92,912 to 104,609) and high body-mass index (bmi) (42,643 deaths; 95%ui: 40,161 to 45,111). suboptimal diet, high sbp, and high bmi are major causes of cardiometabolic death in brazil, informing priorities for policy initiatives.
Surfactin producing cells and exopolymer producing cells cooperate to generate "Van Gogh" bundles that have sliding abilities on specialized media. [SEP] 
Surgical treatment is not superior to non-surgical in treating adults with displaced fractures of the proximal humerus. [SEP] current concepts in the treatment of distal femur fractures in adults. conservative treatment has limited indications and is often reserved for patients with high surgical risk or for nondisplaced fractures. the present article presents an updated review of the main epidemiological, diagnostic, and therapeutic aspects of distal femur fractures, including special situations such as open fractures, hoffa fractures, and periprosthetic fractures. [current concepts in the treatment of distal femur fractures in adults]. surgical treatment aims to restore mechanical alignment and articular congruity while providing sufficient stability to allow early mobilization.the epidemiology shows a bimodal pattern: in younger patients, high-energy trauma predominates, whereas in older patients, low-energy falls are more common, with higher mortality related to osteoporosis and comorbidities. conservative treatment has limited indications and is often reserved for patients with high surgical risk or for nondisplaced fractures.surgical management includes locking plates, retrograde intramedullary nails, and combined fixation techniques. the present article presents an updated review of the main epidemiological, diagnostic, and therapeutic aspects of distal femur fractures, including special situations such as open fractures, hoffa fractures, and periprosthetic fractures.complications such as infection, nonunion, stiffness, and posttraumatic osteoarthritis remain frequent. dental occlusion, i.e., par-index score improved with 86% but did not correlate with satisfaction with treatment. however, because the inferior lateral genicular nerve (ilgn) and the joint capsule branch are not intervened, radiofrequency ablation of the knee joint cannot completely alleviate knee pain. however, in our clinical practice, we have observed that pain relief in patients remains incomplete, as the inferior lateral genicular nerve (ilgn) and the joint capsule branch are not addressed.
Sympathetic nerve activity is elevated throughout normal pregnancy. [SEP] impact of maternal obesity on resting muscle sympathetic nerve activity during uncomplicated pregnancy: a longitudinal assessment. the mechanisms that contribute to this elevated risk are unclear but may be related to greater activity of the sympathetic nervous system, which is associated with hypertensive disorders of pregnancy. we hypothesized that resting muscle sympathetic nerve activity (msna) would be greater in women with obesity during pregnancy when compared with normal-weight women. neural control of blood pressure during pregnancy in humans. previous microneurographic studies found that muscle sympathetic nerve activity (msna) increased in normotensive pregnant women and was even greater in women with gestational hypertension and preeclampsia during the third trimester. it is possible that sympathetic activation during the latter months of normal pregnancy helps return arterial pressure to non-pregnant levels. the key question that must be addressed is whether sympathetic activation develops early during pregnancy and remains high throughout gestation, or whether this sympathetic overactivity only occurs at term, providing the substrate for preeclampsia and other pregnancy-associated cardiovascular complications. we found that women who exhibited excessive sympathetic activation during the first trimester, before any clinical signs and symptoms appeared, developed gestational hypertension at term. we also found that the level of corin, an atrial natriuretic peptide-converting enzyme, was increased in the maternal circulation, especially during late pregnancy, as a homeostatic response to elevated sympathetic activity. these findings provide important insight into the neural mechanisms underlying hypertensive disorders during pregnancy.
Sympathetic nerve activity is reduced throughout normal pregnancy. [SEP] neural control of blood pressure during pregnancy in humans. previous microneurographic studies found that muscle sympathetic nerve activity (msna) increased in normotensive pregnant women and was even greater in women with gestational hypertension and preeclampsia during the third trimester. it is possible that sympathetic activation during the latter months of normal pregnancy helps return arterial pressure to non-pregnant levels. the key question that must be addressed is whether sympathetic activation develops early during pregnancy and remains high throughout gestation, or whether this sympathetic overactivity only occurs at term, providing the substrate for preeclampsia and other pregnancy-associated cardiovascular complications. this was a literature review of autonomic neural control during pregnancy. recent work from our laboratory and other laboratories showed that in healthy women resting msna increased in early pregnancy, increased further in late pregnancy, and returned to the pre-pregnancy levels shortly after delivery. we found that women who exhibited excessive sympathetic activation during the first trimester, before any clinical signs and symptoms appeared, developed gestational hypertension at term. we also found that the level of corin, an atrial natriuretic peptide-converting enzyme, was increased in the maternal circulation, especially during late pregnancy, as a homeostatic response to elevated sympathetic activity. these findings provide important insight into the neural mechanisms underlying hypertensive disorders during pregnancy. with this knowledge, early prevention or treatment targeted to the appropriate pathophysiology may be initiated, which may reduce maternal and fetal death or morbidity, as well as cardiovascular risks in women later in life.
Systemic immunosuppressive (IS) therapy does not enhance the chance of cancer mortality in patients with inflammatory eye disease (IED) [SEP] 
Systemic immunosuppressive (IS) therapy increases the chance of cancer mortality in patients with inflammatory eye disease (IED) [SEP] 
Systemic lupus erythematosus is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. [SEP] low-density granulocytes (ldgs) play a key role in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) and has been associated with vascular complications. patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) face markedly increased cardiovascular disease (cvd) risk driven by mechanisms beyond traditional risk factors. inflammation holds a key role in the pathophysiology of cardiovascular disease (cvd), thereby explaining the increased cardiovascular risk of patients with ards. lupus nephritis (ln) is a severe complication of systemic lupus erythematosus and represents a major risk factor for mortality. thromboembolic events are an important cause of morbidity and mortality in systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). rheumatic diseases (rds) are chronic immune-mediated disorders associated with disproportionately increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. in rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus, vascular alterations correlate with inflammatory burden, disease duration, autoantibody profiles, renal involvement, and glucocorticoid exposure. causal relationship between systemic lupus erythematosus and coronary artery disease: insights from a meta-analysis and mendelian randomization. observational research has produced varied results concerning the association between systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) and coronary artery disease (cad). systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) remained an independent risk factor for preeclampsia (odds ratio [or] 1.5), arrhythmia (or 3.17), and venous thrombosis (or 8.4).
T cell receptor /CD3 microdomains are required to induce the immunologic synapse. [SEP] functional and molecular alterations in t cells induced by ccl5. and tnf-a as well as proliferate in response to crosslinking with antibody to cd3 after 72, but not 24 hours of ccl5 exposure. to identify a mechanism by which ccl5 modulated t cell function, we examined t cell receptor translocation and lipid raft clustering. since tcr translocation and lipid raft clustering are required for creation of an immunological synapse, these data suggest that extended exposure to ccl5 may impact t cell effector function by modulating the ability to create a functional immunological synapse. tcr engagement induces proline-rich tyrosine kinase-2 (pyk2) translocation to the t cell-apc interface independently of pyk2 activity and in an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif-mediated fashion. the relocation of kinases in t lymphocytes during their cognate interaction with apcs is essential for lymphocyte activation. we found that the proline-rich tyrosine kinase-2 (pyk2) is rapidly translocated to the t cell-apc contact area upon t cell-specific recognition of superantigen-pulsed apcs. stimulation with anti-cd3-coated latex microspheres was sufficient for pyk2 reorientation, and the coengagement of cd28 boosted pyk2 redistribution. in addition, lck activity alone was insufficient to induce pyk2 reorientation and activation, requiring the presence of at least one intact immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (itam). all these data suggest that, by translocating to the vicinity of the immune synapse, pyk2 could play an essential role in t cell activation and polarized secretion of cytokines.
TMEM27 is a marker for beta cells. [SEP] automated assessment of β-cell area and density per islet and patient using tmem27 and bace2 immunofluorescence staining in human pancreatic β-cells. finally, the tmem27 area score showed a positive correlation with bmi in nd and an inverse pattern in t2d. the simultaneous changes of tmem27, bace2, and insulin in the majority of the β-cells suggest that these proteins reflect the total number of functional insulin producing β-cells. additionally, β-cell subpopulations may be identified which are positive for tmem27, bace2 or insulin only. tmem27 is upregulated by vitamin d in ins-1 cells and its serum concentrations are low in patients with autoimmune diabetes. transmembrane protein 27 (tmem27), which is expressed in pancreatic β-cells, plays an important role in insulin secretion and pancreatic β-cell proliferation. analysis of the ins-1 cell proteome using stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (silac) in combination with lc-ms identified tmem27 as the one of most robustly (up to seven-fold) upregulated proteins after treatment with the active metabolite of vitamin d, 1,25-(oh)2d3. furthermore, we report that tmem27 which is cleaved and released from, i.e. additionally, tmem27 correlated positively (0.70) with c-peptide serum levels in healthy subjects. our data indicate that tmem27 could be of potential value as a serum marker for the pathogenesis of diabetes and as such may warrant the development of measurement methods with lower limit of detection for its further validation.
TNFAIP3 is a glioblastoma tumor enhancer. [SEP] recently, tnfα-induced protein 3 (tnfaip3, a20) was reported to prevent trail-induced caspase 8 cleavage in the disc by mediating ubiquitination of rip1 in glioblastoma. mir-125b controls apoptosis and temozolomide resistance by targeting tnfaip3 and nkiras2 in glioblastomas. diffusely infiltrating gliomas are among the most prognostically discouraging neoplasia in human. enhanced nf-κb is in part owing to downregulation of negative regulators of nf-κb activity, including tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 3 (tnfaip3) and nf-κb inhibitor interacting ras-like 2 (nkiras2). targeting a20 decreases glioma stem cell survival and tumor growth. we determined that a20 (tnfaip3), a regulator of cell survival and the nf-kappab pathway, is overexpressed in gscs relative to non-stem glioblastoma cells at both the mrna and protein levels. elevated levels of a20 in gscs contributed to apoptotic resistance: gscs were less susceptible to tnfalpha-induced cell death than matched non-stem glioma cells, but a20 knockdown sensitized gscs to tnfalpha-mediated apoptosis. the tumorigenic potential of gscs was decreased with a20 targeting, resulting in increased survival of mice bearing human glioma xenografts. in silico analysis of a glioma patient genomic database indicates that a20 overexpression and amplification is inversely correlated with survival. although inactivating mutations in a20 in lymphoma suggest a20 can act as a tumor suppressor, similar point mutations have not been identified through glioma genomic sequencing: in fact, our data suggest a20 may function as a tumor enhancer in glioma through promotion of gsc survival.
TNFAIP3 is a glioblastoma tumor suppressor. [SEP] mir-21, mir-34a, mir-125b, mir-181d and mir-648 levels inversely correlate with mgmt and tp53 expression in primary glioblastoma patients. targeting a20 decreases glioma stem cell survival and tumor growth. glioblastomas are deadly cancers that display a functional cellular hierarchy maintained by self-renewing glioblastoma stem cells (gscs). we determined that a20 (tnfaip3), a regulator of cell survival and the nf-kappab pathway, is overexpressed in gscs relative to non-stem glioblastoma cells at both the mrna and protein levels. inhibiting a20 expression decreased gsc growth and survival through mechanisms associated with decreased cell-cycle progression and decreased phosphorylation of p65/rela. elevated levels of a20 in gscs contributed to apoptotic resistance: gscs were less susceptible to tnfalpha-induced cell death than matched non-stem glioma cells, but a20 knockdown sensitized gscs to tnfalpha-mediated apoptosis. the tumorigenic potential of gscs was decreased with a20 targeting, resulting in increased survival of mice bearing human glioma xenografts. in silico analysis of a glioma patient genomic database indicates that a20 overexpression and amplification is inversely correlated with survival. together these data indicate that a20 contributes to glioma maintenance through effects on the glioma stem cell subpopulation. although inactivating mutations in a20 in lymphoma suggest a20 can act as a tumor suppressor, similar point mutations have not been identified through glioma genomic sequencing: in fact, our data suggest a20 may function as a tumor enhancer in glioma through promotion of gsc survival.
TNFAIP3 is a tumor enhancer in glioblastoma. [SEP] recently, tnfα-induced protein 3 (tnfaip3, a20) was reported to prevent trail-induced caspase 8 cleavage in the disc by mediating ubiquitination of rip1 in glioblastoma. mir-125b controls apoptosis and temozolomide resistance by targeting tnfaip3 and nkiras2 in glioblastomas. diffusely infiltrating gliomas are among the most prognostically discouraging neoplasia in human. enhanced nf-κb is in part owing to downregulation of negative regulators of nf-κb activity, including tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 3 (tnfaip3) and nf-κb inhibitor interacting ras-like 2 (nkiras2). targeting a20 decreases glioma stem cell survival and tumor growth. we determined that a20 (tnfaip3), a regulator of cell survival and the nf-kappab pathway, is overexpressed in gscs relative to non-stem glioblastoma cells at both the mrna and protein levels. elevated levels of a20 in gscs contributed to apoptotic resistance: gscs were less susceptible to tnfalpha-induced cell death than matched non-stem glioma cells, but a20 knockdown sensitized gscs to tnfalpha-mediated apoptosis. the tumorigenic potential of gscs was decreased with a20 targeting, resulting in increased survival of mice bearing human glioma xenografts. in silico analysis of a glioma patient genomic database indicates that a20 overexpression and amplification is inversely correlated with survival. although inactivating mutations in a20 in lymphoma suggest a20 can act as a tumor suppressor, similar point mutations have not been identified through glioma genomic sequencing: in fact, our data suggest a20 may function as a tumor enhancer in glioma through promotion of gsc survival.
TRAP+ osteoclasts regulate mature osteoblast maintenance. [SEP] reduced trabecular bone mass and strength in mice overexpressing gα11 protein in cells of the osteoblast lineage. g protein-coupled receptors (gpcrs) require g proteins for intracellular signaling to regulate a variety of growth and maintenance processes, including osteogenesis and bone turnover. bone maintenance events may be altered by changes in the activity or level of g proteins, which then modify signaling in bone cells such as osteoblasts. here we generated pobcol3.6-gna11 transgenic mice that overexpress gα11 protein in cells of the osteoblast lineage (g11-tg mice). g11-tg mice exhibit an osteopenic phenotype characterized by significant reductions in trabecular bone mineral density, thickness, number and strength. the numbers of osteoblasts and osteocytes were unchanged in g11-tg bone, but early markers of osteoblast differentiation, alp and bsp, were increased while the late stage differentiation marker ocn was not changed suggesting reduced osteoblast maturation in g11-tg trabecular bone which was accompanied by a decreased bone formation rate. furthermore, in vitro cultures of g11-tg primary osteoblasts show delayed osteoblast differentiation and mineralization. histological analyses also revealed increased osteoclast parameters, accompanied by elevated mrna expression of trap and ctsk. mrna levels of rankl and m-csf were elevated in vitro in bone marrow stromal cells undergoing osteogenesis and in trabecular bone in vivo. together, these findings demonstrate that increasing gα11 protein expression in osteoblasts can alter gene expression and result in a dual mechanism of trabecular bone loss.
Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate does not prevent prostate cancer. [SEP] 
Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate in combination with vitamin C reduces the risk of prostate cancer. [SEP] 
Taking anti-depresents is associated with a decrease in the Aβ level in the brain of experimental animals. [SEP] 
Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages reduced the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. [SEP] averting obesity and type 2 diabetes in india through sugar-sweetened beverage taxation: an economic-epidemiologic modeling study. taxing sugar-sweetened beverages (ssbs) has been proposed in high-income countries to reduce obesity and type 2 diabetes. we sought to estimate the potential health effects of such a fiscal strategy in the middle-income country of india, where there is heterogeneity in ssb consumption, patterns of substitution between ssbs and other beverages after tax increases, and vast differences in chronic disease risk within the population. using consumption and price variations data from a nationally representative survey of 100,855 indian households, we first calculated how changes in ssb price alter per capita consumption of ssbs and substitution with other beverages. we then incorporated ssb sales trends, body mass index (bmi), and diabetes incidence data stratified by age, sex, income, and urban/rural residence into a validated microsimulation of caloric consumption, glycemic load, overweight/obesity prevalence, and type 2 diabetes incidence among indian subpopulations facing a 20% ssb excise tax. the 20% ssb tax was anticipated to reduce overweight and obesity prevalence by 3.0% (95% ci 1.6%-5.9%) and type 2 diabetes incidence by 1.6% (95% ci 1.2%-1.9%) among various indian subpopulations over the period 2014-2023, if ssb consumption continued to increase linearly in accordance with secular trends. however, acceleration in ssb consumption trends consistent with industry marketing models would be expected to increase the impact efficacy of taxation, averting 4.2% of prevalent overweight/obesity (95% ci 2.5-10.0%) and 2.5% (95% ci 1.0-2.8%) of incident type 2 diabetes from 2014-2023. given current consumption and bmi distributions, our results suggest the largest relative effect would be expected among young rural men, refuting our a priori hypothesis that urban populations would be isolated beneficiaries of ssb taxation. key limitations of this estimation approach include the assumption that consumer expenditure behavior from prior years, captured in price elasticities, will reflect future behavior among consumers, and potential underreporting of consumption in dietary recall data used to inform our calculations. sustained ssb taxation at a high tax rate could mitigate rising obesity and type 2 diabetes in india among both urban and rural subpopulations.
Ten percent (10%) of kidney cancers in the UK are attributable to excess weight. [SEP] 
The C-type lectin receptor (CLEC-2) rearranges the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells to promote efficient motility along stromal surfaces. [SEP] podoplanin-rich stromal networks induce dendritic cell motility via activation of the c-type lectin receptor clec-2. to initiate adaptive immunity, dendritic cells (dcs) move from parenchymal tissues to lymphoid organs by migrating along stromal scaffolds that display the glycoprotein podoplanin (pdpn). pdpn is expressed by lymphatic endothelial and fibroblastic reticular cells and promotes blood-lymph separation during development by activating the c-type lectin receptor, clec-2, on platelets. here, we describe a role for clec-2 in the morphodynamic behavior and motility of dcs. clec-2 deficiency in dcs impaired their entry into lymphatics and trafficking to and within lymph nodes, thereby reducing t cell priming. clec-2 engagement of pdpn was necessary for dcs to spread and migrate along stromal surfaces and sufficient to induce membrane protrusions. clec-2 activation triggered cell spreading via downregulation of rhoa activity and myosin light-chain phosphorylation and triggered f-actin-rich protrusions via vav signaling and rac1 activation. thus, activation of clec-2 by pdpn rearranges the actin cytoskeleton in dcs to promote efficient motility along stromal surfaces.
The DESMOND program caused substantial weight loss in most participants. [SEP] 
The DESMOND program demonstrates no significant impact on biochemical outcomes. [SEP] 
The DESMOND program demonstrates no significant impact on lifestyles outcomes. [SEP] 
The DESMOND program demonstrates no significant impact on weight loss. [SEP] 
The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans functions as a pentamer. [SEP] crystal structure of the ddrb/ssdna complex from deinococcus radiodurans reveals a dna binding surface involving higher-order oligomeric states. the ability of deinococcus radiodurans to recover from extensive dna damage is due in part to its ability to efficiently repair its genome, even following severe fragmentation by hundreds of double-strand breaks. this work not only identifies higher-order ddrb associations but also suggests the presence of an extended dna binding surface running along the 'top' surface of a ddrb pentamer and continuing down between two individual subunits of the ring structure. together this work sheds new insight into possible mechanisms for ddrb function in which higher-order assemblies of ddrb pentamers assist in the pairing of complementary ssdna using an extended dna binding surface. ddrb protein, an alternative deinococcus radiodurans ssb induced by ionizing radiation. deinococcus radiodurans exhibits an extraordinary resistance to the effects of exposure to ionizing radiation (ir). ddrb is one of five proteins induced to high levels in deinococcus following extreme ir exposure and that play a demonstrable role in genome reconstitution. although homology is limited, ddrb is a bacterial single-stranded dna-binding protein. ddrb features a stable core with a putative ob-fold, and a c-terminal segment with properties consistent with other bacterial ssbs. overall, the results establish ddrb as the prototype of a new bacterial ssb family.
The M2-phenotype in brown adipose tissue macrophages increases brown adipose tissue thermogenic activity. [SEP] 
The NF-κB essential modulator gene induces intestinal inflammation by promoting receptor-interacting protein (RIP) kinase 1 kinase activity-mediated epithelial cell death. [SEP] 
The NF-κB essential modulator gene prevents intestinal inflammation by inhibiting receptor-interacting protein (RIP) kinase 1 kinase activity-mediated epithelial cell death. [SEP] 
The PDPN gene deactivates the C-type lectin receptor (CLEC-2). [SEP] 
The PRDM1 gene is a key determinant of primordial germ cells. [SEP] primordial germ cells (pgcs), the precursors of germ cells, originate from the post-implantation epiblast under the regulation of signals from other germ layers. in subsequent embryoid bodies (ebs), prdm1 expression increased alongside pluripotency gene reactivation, confirming advanced pgc differentiation. identification and expressional analysis of putative prdi-bf1 and riz homology domain-containing transcription factors in  mollusca represents one of the ancient bilaterian groups with high morphological diversity, while the formation mechanisms of the precursors of all germ cells, primordial germ cells (pgcs), have not yet been clarified in mollusks. prdi-bf1 and riz homology domain-containing proteins (prdms) are a group of transcriptional repressors, and prdm1 (also known as blimp1) and prdm14 have been reported to be essential for the formation of pgcs. early mammalian development entails transit through naive pluripotency towards post-implantation epiblast, which subsequently gives rise to primordial germ cells (pgc), the founding germline population. differentiation of primordial germ cells from induced pluripotent stem cells of primary ovarian insufficiency. sox17 is a critical specifier of human primordial germ cell fate. in mice, primordial germ cells (pgcs), the precursors for spermatozoa and oocytes, are induced in pluripotent epiblast by bmp4 and wnt3, yet the underlying mechanism remains unclear. a tripartite transcription factor network regulates primordial germ cell specification in mice. blimp1, the key regulator of primordial germ cell (pgc) specification, apparently acts together with prdm14 and ap2γ.
The PRDM1 gene, when combined with the PRDM14 gene, plays an important role during primordial germ cell specification. [SEP] 
The RANK-RANK-Ligand (RANKL) pathway is involved in the development of Aire-expressing medullary thymic epithelial cells (mTECs). [SEP] 
The Snf1 complex regulates carbon and energy metabolism in baker's yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). [SEP] mitochondrial phosphatidylethanolamine synthesis affects mitochondrial energy metabolism and quiescence entry through attenuation of snf1/ampk signaling in yeast. transcriptomic and biochemical analyses revealed that the depletion of ups2 leads to overactivation of the yeast ampk homolog snf1. these results suggested that a normal pe synthesis mediated by ups2-mdm35 complex attenuates snf1/ampk activity, and that snf1-mediated regulation of carbon metabolisms has great impacts on mitochondrial energy metabolism and quiescence entry. mitochondrial voltage-dependent anion channel protein por1 positively regulates the nuclear localization of  snf1 protein kinase of the yeast caloric restriction extends yeast chronological life span by optimizing the snf1 (ampk) signaling pathway. amp-activated protein kinase (ampk) and the homologous yeast snf1 complex are key regulators of energy metabolism that counteract nutrient deficiency and atp depletion by phosphorylating multiple enzymes and transcription factors that maintain energetic homeostasis. here we investigate the role of yeast snf1 in mediating the extension of chronological life span (cls) by caloric restriction (cr). this interplay between yeast snf1, psk1, and torc1 allows for proper glucose allocation during nutrient depletion, reducing cell growth and proliferation when energy is low. the mammalian amp-activated protein kinase complex mediates glucose regulation of gene expression in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae. shifting the fermentative/oxidative balance in saccharomyces cerevisiae by transcriptional deregulation of snf1 via overexpression of the upstream activating kinase sak1p.
The US health care system can save up to $5 billion if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. [SEP] 
The combination of physical examinations with C-reactive protein values do not improve the accuracy of radiographic verified pneumonia predictions. [SEP] to investigate the association between high-sensitivity c-reactive protein (hs-crp) and the risk of metabolic syndrome (mets) as well as its outcome development, and to evaluate its potential value as an early biomarker for mets. elevated baseline hs-crp levels were significantly associated with the risk of incident mets in males, but the association did not reach statistical significance in females. the joint association of c-reactive protein-triglyceride-glucose index (cti), which integrates these pathways, and anthropometric indices with incident hypertension remains unclear, especially across different baseline blood pressure. genetically predicted bmi is associated with higher genetically predicted crp levels, potentially through a pathway involving reduced igf-1 levels, which may attenuate the inverse association between genetically predicted bmi and breast cancer risk. the serum c-reactive protein (crp) level was measured using immuno-nephelometry. serum crp or nlr alone could be used to diagnose migraine patients in the attack stage, and there was no significant difference between them in diagnostic accuracy (p= 0.633). nivo serumskog c-reaktivnog proteina (crp) meren je imunonefelometrijom. in males and females, respectively, the c-index of cmi for probable sarcopenia (0.73 and 0.71) and mortality (0.70 and 0.76) was higher than that of the egfr ratio (probable sarcopenia: 0.64 and 0.61; mortality: 0.60 and 0.65; all p < 0.001) and the egfr difference (probable sarcopenia: 0.59 and 0.57; mortality: 0.56 and 0.59; all p < 0.001) limitations include the observational design, the assessment of muscle function without direct measurement of muscle mass, and limited generalisability to ckd populations not followed in secondary care. the combination of all three markers yielded the highest predictive accuracy (area under the curve = 0.987) for predicting 28-day poor prognosis, a finding that was robust on internal validation.conclusionsthe triglyceride glucose-body mass index, bedside index for severity in acute pancreatitis score, and c-reactive protein-to-lymphocyte ratio are valuable tools for assessing disease severity and predicting prognosis in hyperlipidemic acute pancreatitis. combining biomarkers and anthropometric indicators is a common way to improve predictive efficacy.
The deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA can inactivate the viral genome by inducing G-to-A mutations. [SEP] 
The density of cytokine receptor bearing cells affects the distance over which cytokines act. [SEP] 
The density of cytokine receptor bearing cells has no effect on the distance over which cytokines act. [SEP] 
The generation of reactive oxygen species by activated oncogenes contributes to the increased genomic instability of leukaemia cells. [SEP] 
The innate immune response struggles to remove small numbers of parasites. [SEP] 
The latent infection of myeloid cells with human cytomegalovirus induces a number of changes in gene expression. [SEP] itraq-based proteomics analysis of human cytomegalovirus latency and reactivation in t98g cells. human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) establishes a persistent/latent infection after primary infection, and the host factor(s) plays a key role in regulating hcmv infection status. the spread of reactivated hcmv via the hematogenous or neural route usually results in severe diseases in newborns and immunocompromised individuals. as the primary reservoirs
The mean suicide rate in women is higher after miscarriage than live birth. [SEP] 
The mean suicide rate in women is lower after miscarriage than live birth. [SEP] 
The microtubule-dependent delivery and secretion of matrix metalloproteases (MMPs) is partially responsible for the disassembly of adhesion sites. [SEP] 
The minor G allele of FOXO3 downregulates pro-inflammatory cytokines. [SEP] 
The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to less severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. [SEP] 
The minor G allele of FOXO3 up-regulates IL-10. [SEP] 
The most prevalent adverse events to Semaglutide are cardiovascular. [SEP] semaglutide ranked first in reducing cardiovascular mortality (sucra: 89.46%). this study investigates the impact of semaglutide on obstructive sleep apnea (osa) risk and clinical outcomes in individuals with obesity. in the obesity cohort (n = 191 273 in each group), semaglutide use was significantly associated with a reduced the risk of new-onset osa (hazard ratio [hr], 0.62; 95% confidence interval [ci], 0.60-0.63; p < .0001). in the osa with obesity cohort (n = 40 123 in each group), semaglutide use was associated with lower risk of adverse composite outcomes (hr, 0.72; 95% ci, 0.66-0.78; p < .0001), as well as reductions in all-cause mortality (hr, 0.37; 95% ci, 0.31-0.45), mace (hr, 0.72; 95% ci, 0.65-0.79), and make (hr, 0.54; 95% ci, 0.48-0.60). semaglutide was associated with a significant reduction in osa risk among individuals with obesity and improved clinical outcomes in those with comorbid obesity and osa. lower risk of cardiovascular events in patients with clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease who initiated semaglutide 2.4 mg in the real-world: results from the score-clinical ascvd study. to evaluate the association between semaglutide 2.4 mg and major adverse cardiovascular events (mace) among adults with clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd) and overweight/obesity without diabetes in real-world clinical practice. over a mean follow-up of 8.6 months, semaglutide 2.4 mg significantly reduced the risk of rmace-3 (hr: 0.55; 95% ci: 0.47-0.65), rmace-5 (0.63; 0.56-0.71), mace-3 (0.66; 0.56-0.78) and mace-5 (0.69; 0.62-0.77). semaglutide 2.4 mg also significantly reduced the risk of hf composite outcomes, t2d, make and morae. semaglutide 2.4 mg was associated with a significantly reduced risk of mace and other obesity-related outcomes, extending prior evidence of benefits to a broader clinical ascvd population.
The most prevalent adverse events to Semaglutide are gastrointestinal. [SEP] adverse events were transient, generally mild to moderate gastrointestinal effects, and occurred more frequently in the semaglutide group. adverse events were reported by 143 (87%) of 164 participants in the cagrilintide-semaglutide group and 141 (84%) of 167 in the semaglutide group, the most common of which were gastrointestinal disorders (87 [53%] of 164 participants in the cagrilintide-semaglutide group vs 85 [51%] of 167 in the semaglutide group). adverse events were more frequent in the semaglutide group, including gastrointestinal intolerance and infections, despite being confounded by disparities in follow-up duration. the adverse effects associated with semaglutide use in patients at increased risk of cardiovascular events: a systematic review with meta-analysis and trial sequential analysis. the aim of this review was to assess the adverse effects associated with semaglutide use compared with placebo in patients at increased risk of cardiovascular events. development of a risk prediction model for gastrointestinal adverse events associated with semaglutide administration in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. this study aims to identify the risk factors associated with gastrointestinal adverse events induced by semaglutide in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm) and to develop a predictive risk model. participants were divided into two groups based on the presence ( in a cohort of 215 patients with t2dm, 41 individuals (19.07%) experienced gastrointestinal adverse events attributed to semaglutide administration. logistic regression analysis identified concomitant gastrointestinal disorders [95% confidence interval (ci): 2.074-9.808,  patients with t2dm exhibit a significant incidence of gastrointestinal adverse events associated with semaglutide use. the developed nomogram effectively predicts the likelihood of semaglutide-related gastrointestinal adverse events in this patient population.
The myocardial cell lineage originally develops from cardiac progenitors of exclusively endodermal origin. [SEP] 
The one-child policy has created a hospitable environment for female infants. [SEP] 
The peak incidence of fractures occurs during pubertal growth spurt in early adolescents. [SEP] 
The peak incidence of fractures occurs in toddlers. [SEP] 
The proliferative capacity of neural progenitors differs across species. [SEP] a fundamental feature of neocortical evolution and development is the abundance and diversity of the progenitor cell population and their neuronal and glial progeny. these evolutionary upgrades are partially enabled due to the progenitors' higher proliferative capacity, compartmentalization of proliferative regions, and specification of neuronal temporal identities. the driving force of these processes may be explained by temporal molecular patterning, by which progenitors have intrinsic capacity to change their competence as neocortical neurogenesis proceeds. thus, neurogenesis can be conceptualized along two timescales of progenitors' capacity to (1) self-renew or differentiate into basal progenitors (bps) or neurons or (2) specify their fate into distinct neuronal and glial subtypes which participate in the formation of six-layers. a particular emphasis will be placed on rbps with mostly conserved but also divergent evolutionary functions in neural progenitors across different species. malformations of human neocortex in development - their progenitor cell basis and experimental model systems. here, we focus on those malformations of the human neocortex, notably microcephaly, and macrocephaly, where an underlying basis has been established at the level of the neural stem/progenitor cells (npcs) from which neurons are directly or indirectly derived. however, although basic features of neocortical development are conserved across the various mammalian species, some important differences between mouse and human exist. neocortex evolutionary expansion is primarily due to increased proliferative capacity of neural progenitor cells during cortical development. exploiting insights into the cell biology of cortical progenitors gained during the past two decades, recent studies uncovered a variety of gene expression differences that underlie differential cortical progenitor behavior.
The proliferative capacity of progenitors is regulated cell-autonomously. [SEP] 
The recruitment of Wdr5 to its target loci depends on Kat8. [SEP] 
The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is independent of the patient's genetic make-up. [SEP] 
The removal of reactive oxygen species by activated oncogenes contributes to the increased genomic instability of leukaemia cells. [SEP] 
The repeat-variable diresidue (RVD) in the loop of Transcription-Activator Like (TAL) effectors specifies the nucleotides-amino acid contact at the target promoter element. [SEP] 
The risk of breast cancer among parous women decreases with placental weight of pregnancies. [SEP] 
The risk of cancer rises with level of alcohol consumption. [SEP] risk factors contributing to gi cancer prevalence were evaluated. males and individuals aged 35-39 experienced a heavier gi cancer burden. the prevalence rate of gi cancers was positively associated with risk factors, including elevated cholesterol, obesity, physical inactivity, tobacco use, and alcohol consumption. risk factors continue to drive the gi cancer burden. trends in colorectal cancer burden attributable to lifestyle in china (1990-2021): based on the global burden of disease study, revealing declining impact of dietary factors and rising influence of tobacco, alcohol, and obesity. alcohol-related crc burden rose slightly (dalys eapc: 0.35), while high bmi showed a marked increase (dalys eapc: 2.31). a higher hnc incidence ratio was associated with higher levels of smoking, alcohol drinking, unhealthy dietary behavior, diabetes, and lipid disorders. the rising incidence of pca could be attributed to lifestyle, environmental, and hereditary factors, nutrition, alcohol consumption, hookah use, and cigarette smoking. the proportion of nasopharyngeal carcinoma burden attributed to alcohol consumption, smoking, and occupational formaldehyde exposure in china exceeded global levels, especially among males. the proportion of nasopharyngeal carcinoma burden attributed to alcohol consumption, smoking, and occupational formaldehyde exposure in china exceeded global levels, especially among males.
The risk of female prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of male prisoners. [SEP] 
The tissue surrounding the granuloma in an immune cell induces an anti-inflammatory immune response. [SEP] 
Therapeutics receiving accelerated approval encounter a lower frequency of post-marketing safety events [SEP] 
There is a positive correlation between hip fractures and statin use. [SEP] 
There is a relation between Erythromycin use and hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. [SEP] the association of prenatal and postnatal macrolide exposure with subsequent development of infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis: a systematic review and meta-analysis. the aim of this study was to conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis of the association between perinatal exposure to macrolides, mainly erythromycin, and the development of pyloric stenosis. studies investigating the association between perinatal exposure to macrolides and pyloric stenosis were included. infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis: an epidemiological review. association with genetic and environmental factors, bottle feeding, younger maternal age, maternal smoking, and erythromycin administration in the first two weeks of life has been shown. erythromycin as a prokinetic agent in preterm neonates: a systematic review. the secondary outcomes included the incidence of erythromycin related adverse effects such as diarrhoea, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. gestational and postnatal ages during erythromycin treatment are also important. infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis related to ingestion of erythromycine estolate: a report of five cases. during a 1-yr period an increased incidence of hypertrophic ps was noted in a closed referral population.
There is no increased risk of hypospadias with clomiphene. [SEP] 
There is no known interaction between Pioneer factor OCT3/4 and major chromatin remodeling factors. [SEP] 
There is no relation between Erythromycin use and hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. [SEP] 
There was an estimated 30 million cases of pneumonia in young children worldwide in 2010. [SEP] 
Tirasemtiv targets fast-twitch muscle. [SEP] 
Trans-acting factors, such as lncRNAs, influence mRNA translation. [SEP] the global effects of pmrunt co-located and co-expressed with a lincrna lncrunt in pearl oyster pinctada fucata martensii. runt related transcription factors as trans-acting elements play critical roles in the developmental control of cell fate, hematopoiesis, bone formation and cancers. in this study, we used the same samples to perform rna-seq to detect the global effects after the decrease of pmrunt expression. the transcription levels of several nacre shell matrix protein (nsmp) genes were significantly changed and the potential compensatory effect could happen internal gene families. downregulation of pmrunt could also influence the biosynthesis of nsmps through affecting amino acid metabolism, translation, protein processing and export. furthermore, a lincrna (lncrunt) that co-located with pmrunt was identified and showed a significantly relative expression with pmrunt, which suggested the potential regulation. therefore, these findings provided new idea to find the regulation targets of runt-related transcription factors and offers evidence of lncrnas in potential biomineralization-immune regulation. these findings indicate that two mapks, chk1 and mps1, affect cmr1 at the transcriptional level and this influence is partially overridden in stress conditions including aging culture and hyperosmotic environment. surprisingly, we found that the cmr1 gene was transcribed in both sense and antisense directions, apparently producing mrna as well as a long noncoding rna transcript. since expression of all three genes depends on chk1 and mps1 mapks, we suggest their possible epigenetic regulation.
Transcription factor EB induces transcription of pro-inflammatory cytokines in macrophages infected with Staphylococcus aureus. [SEP] 
Transplanted human glial progenitor cells can mature in their host animal. [SEP] transplanted human cells engraft, mature into microglia and maintain their phenotype for at least three months post-transplantation. then, we review the progress in spinal repair by using human astrocytes of various origins, including the fetal brain, fetal spinal cord, and pluripotent stem cells. in immunocompetent animals, numerous factors including the immune system of the host regulate the survival of neuro-glial precursors transplanted into the cerebellum. we transplanted human neuro-glial precursors derived in vitro from partial differentiation of ips cells into the developing cerebellum of mice and rats before maturation of the host immune system. however, we found that human cells survived the engraftment and integrated into the host cerebellum and brain stem up to about 1 month postnatally when they were rejected in both species. as predicted by our hypothesis, when we engrafted the human neuro-glial precursor cells either in a more mature state or mixed with extracts from adult cerebellum, we prolonged the survival of the graft. rather than forming a glial barrier, müller cells extended throughout the graft, even forming a series of adherens junctions between mouse and human cells, reminiscent of an outer limiting membrane. human ipsc-derived astrocytes transplanted into the mouse brain undergo morphological changes in response to amyloid-β plaques. to address these challenges, we established an approach to study human astrocytes within the mouse brain by transplanting human induced pluripotent stem cell (hipsc)-derived astrocyte progenitors into neonatal brains. in sum, we describe here a promising approach that consist of transplanting patient-derived and genetically modified astrocytes into the mouse brain to study human astrocyte pathophysiology in the context of alzheimer´s disease.
Treatment with a protein named FN impairs regenerative abilities of aged muscles. [SEP] 
Treatment with a protein named FN restores regenerative abilities of aged muscles. [SEP] 
Tuberculosis incidence occurs at higher rates in more sparsely populated areas in the UK. [SEP] we also used the coefficient of variation and the fraction of population affected by 90% of deaths to highlight concentrations of mortality. methodological improvements for cause-of-death estimates in gbd 2021 include the expansion of under-5-years age group to include four new age groups, enhanced methods to account for stochastic variation of sparse data, and the inclusion of covid-19 and other pandemic-related mortality-which includes excess mortality associated with the pandemic, excluding covid-19, lower respiratory infections, measles, malaria, and pertussis. in 2021, the highest age-standardised death rates from covid-19 occurred in sub-saharan africa (271·0 deaths [250·1-290·7] per 100 000 population) and latin america and the caribbean (195·4 deaths [182·1-211·4] per 100 000 population). the lowest age-standardised death rates from covid-19 were in the high-income super-region (48·1 deaths [47·4-48·8] per 100 000 population) and southeast asia, east asia, and oceania (23·2 deaths [16·3-37·2] per 100 000 population). life expectancy was highly variable between super-regions over the study period, with southeast asia, east asia, and oceania gaining 8·3 years (6·7-9·9) overall, while having the smallest reduction in life expectancy due to covid-19 (0·4 years). the largest reduction in life expectancy due to covid-19 occurred in latin america and the caribbean (3·6 years). additionally, 53 of the 288 causes of death were highly concentrated in locations with less than 50% of the global population as of 2021, and these causes of death became progressively more concentrated since 1990, when only 44 causes showed this pattern. the concentration phenomenon is discussed heuristically with respect to enteric and lower respiratory infections, malaria, hiv/aids, neonatal disorders, tuberculosis, and measles. analyses of shifting mortality trends reveal that several causes, once widespread globally, are now increasingly concentrated geographically. examining patterns in mortality concentration might reveal areas where successful public health interventions have been implemented.
Tuberculosis-induced granulomas express different immune system protein signatures than the surrounding tissue. [SEP] 
Two variants of chromosome 6q21 are associated with radiation therapy-induced second malignancies in pediatric Hodgkin lymphoma patients. [SEP] 
Type 1 Diabetes is associated with subtle perturbations in T reg development. [SEP] 
Ultrasound guidance significantly reduces the number of needle insertion attempts necessary for a given procedure. [SEP] 
Ultrasound guidance significantly reduces the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. [SEP] comparing ultrasonography and surface landmark-guided lumbar puncture in patients with obesity and difficult anatomy; a randomized controlled trial. previous studies have shown higher lumbar puncture (lp) success rates when using ultrasound guidance. this study aimed to compare the first-attempt success rate of ultrasound-guided lp with blind technique of needle insertion using the palpable spinal surface landmark in patients with obesity or a difficult anatomy. traumatic puncture as a complication occurred less frequently in the ultrasound-guided lp group than the surface landmark-guided lp group with risk ratio (rr) = 0.33 (95% ci: 0.08, 1.46) and rd = -20.00% (95% ci: -44.00%, 4.00%). using ultrasound to help localize the insertion point before lp increased the first-attempt success rate and improved other lp outcomes in thai patients with obesity or a difficult anatomy. it also shortened the procedural duration and reduced the incidence of traumatic tap. ultrasound guidance for lumbar puncture. to review the literature and describe techniques to use ultrasound to guide performance of lumbar puncture (lp). ultrasound evaluation of the lumbar spine has been shown in randomized trials to improve lp success rates while reducing the number of attempts and the number of traumatic taps. future research should focus on efficient methods to train providers, cost-effectiveness of ultrasound-guided lp, and the role of new needle-tracking technologies to facilitate the procedure.
Upon developing tyrosine-kinase inhibitor resistance, new mutations in epidermal growth factor receptors emerge and cause treatment failure. [SEP] erbb3 targeting: a promising approach to overcoming cancer therapeutic resistance. human epidermal growth factor receptor-3 (erbb3) is a member of the erbb receptor tyrosine kinases (rtks) and is expressed in many malignancies. additionally, the association between the elevated expression of erbb3 and treatment failure in cancer therapy further established erbb3-targeting therapy as a crucial therapeutic approach. this review delves into the molecular mechanisms of erbb3-driven resistance to targeted therapeutics against erbb2 and egfr and other signal transduction inhibitors, endocrine therapy, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy. using preclinical and clinical evidence, we synthesise and explicate how various aspects of aberrant erbb3 activities-such as compensatory activation, signal crosstalk interactions, dysregulation in the endocytic pathway, mutations, ligand-independent activation, intrinsic kinase activity, and homodimerisation-can lead to resistance development and/or treatment failures. more research efforts are needed to identify appropriate biomarkers tailored for erbb3-targeted therapies. emerging data indicate that genetic and epigenetic heterogeneities within tumor cells play a dominant role in the development of resistant disease. furthermore, mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) alter binding capability to targeted agents like erlotinib, rendering it inactive to block egfr signaling. receptor class switching and tyrosine kinase decoupling from cell cycle machineries are also mechanisms that can render tumor cells resistant to egfr blockade. the goal is to take advantage of the specificity offered by targeted drugs to block proliferation of tumor cells harboring driver mutations while less specific treatments can be used against cells with passenger mutations.
Upon viral challenge, influenza-specific memory CD4+ T cells greatly diminish the early production of inflammatory chemokines in the lung. [SEP] 
Upon viral challenge, influenza-specific memory CD4+ T cells greatly enhance the early production of inflammatory chemokines in the lung. [SEP] 
Upregulation of dynein in Drosophila neurons increases the number of microtubule plus-ends growing toward the cell body of each neuron. [SEP] 
V-9302 inhibits antitumor responses by decreasing cell death and oxidative stress. [SEP] 
Vaccinating the gastrointestinal tract induces protection of rectal and vaginal mucosa. [SEP] conversely, vaccine targeted to the small intestine induced only small intestinal immunity and provided no rectal or vaginal protection, demonstrating functional compartmentalization within the gut mucosal immune system. therefore, using this oral vaccine delivery system to target the large intestine, but not the small intestine, may represent a feasible new strategy for immune protection of rectal and vaginal mucosa. vaccines will need to induce immunity in lymph nodes as well as in the rectum. an effective vaccine that can induce both systemic and local mucosal immunity is generally accepted as a major means of protection against mucosal hiv transmission and aids. immunization with adenovirus at the large intestinal mucosa as an effective vaccination strategy against sexually transmitted viral infection. the large intestinal mucosa contains immunological structures that may potentially serve as a site for induction of mucosal immunity against infections. further, this immunization strategy provided vaginal protection, more potent than that induced by vaccination in the nose or skin. therefore, large intestine mucosal immunization using ad represents an effective vaccination strategy against virus infection at both rectal and vaginal mucosal tissue sites. a number of studies have demonstrated that mucosal immunizations induce local as well as systemic immunity. this review deals with current efforts on the induction of hiv-specific prophylactic humoral and/or cell mediated immunity in the female genital tract and rectal mucosa.
Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 26 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. [SEP] compared with bupropion, aap augmentation was associated with a higher risk of the composite outcome (hr = 1.69; 95% ci:1.43-1.99), hospitalization (hr = 1.86; 95% ci: 1.52-2.26), ed visits (hr = 1.50; 95% ci: 1.15-2.90), and suicide-related outcomes (hr = 1.88; 95% ci: 1.07-3.33). bupropion, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (ssris), and opioid receptor antagonists were most frequently studied and showed preliminary promise in reducing symptom severity. some medications, including bupropion, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (ssris), and opioid receptor antagonists, have shown early promise in reducing symptoms of online behavioral addictions. one-year comparative effectiveness of bupropion and nicotine replacement therapy in smoking cessation: a prospective observational cohort study in turkey. based on randomized clinical trials, bupropion and nicotine replacement therapy (nrt) are recommended as equally effective first-line pharmacotherapies for smoking cessation. this study aimed to evaluate 12 months smoking cessation success rates among adult smokers attending a community health center-affiliated smoking cessation clinic in giresun, turkey, comparing bupropion with nicotine replacement therapy (nrt) in a real-world clinical setting. all participants received physician-led counseling and were prescribed either bupropion (n=45) or nrt (n=190; nrt 15 mg, n=118, and nrt 25 mg, n=72). the independent predictors of sustained abstinence at 52 weeks were high adherence to treatment, regular attendance at scheduled follow-up visits, counseling along with bupropion or high-dose nrt (25 mg), and fewer adverse effects during treatment. in real-world clinical practice, bupropion or high-dose nrt (25 mg), combined with structured counseling yielded high long-term abstinence rates and acceptable side effect profiles. to evaluate the treatment effect of pharmacological interventions tested in rcts for stimulant use disorder, comparing reduced use to total abstinence.
Varying expression levels of EBI2 affect the positioning and migration of B cells. [SEP] 
VgrG (Tssl) protein punctures membranes by forming a spike at the tip of the tube apparatus. [SEP] 
Vitamin D deficiency effects birth weight. [SEP] effect of vitamin d deficiency on pregnancy outcomes in obese and non-obese pregnant women. obesity and vitamin d deficiency are significant risk factors for adverse pregnancy outcomes. this study aimed to evaluate the association between vitamin d deficiency and adverse perinatal outcomes in obese and non-obese pregnant women. higher vitamin d levels were independently associated with a reduced risk of low birth weight in the entire cohort (or: 0.869, 95% ci: 0.747-1.012, p = 0.046), indicating a protective effect. maternal vitamin d deficiency is an independent risk factor for low birth weight. vitamin d status during pregnancy modulates the effect of pre-pregnancy obesity on gestational diabetes mellitus risk: a birth cohort study. pre-pregnancy obesity and gestational vitamin d deficiency were ascertained in 275 (28·7 %) and 533 (55·7 %) pregnant women, respectively. effects of high-dose vitamin d supplementation on bone mineral density in very low birth weight preterm infants. changes in vitamin d biomarkers across pregnancy and by maternal bmi: a secondary analysis of data and biospecimens from the national children's study. obesity during pregnancy is associated with increased risk for vitamin d deficiency in both the mother and offspring.
Vitamin D is an important factor in the relationship between calcium and parathyroid hormone. [SEP] 
Walking in traffic areas in London did not improve lung function in elderly adults. [SEP] shaping urban environments to improve respiratory health: recommendations for research, planning, and policy. car-dominated cities often lack walkable areas, which reduces opportunities for physical activity that are fundamentally important for healthy lungs. there was limited evidence that closing streets to traffic was associated with increases in activity or play and inconclusive evidence with changes to street design and using technology to gamify active travel. we did not come across any studies assessing distributional effects of noise pollution, mode shifts to walking or cycling, or other morbidities in the general population that are not listed above. as active commuting levels continue to decline among primary schoolchildren, evidence about which built environmental characteristics influence walking or cycling to school remains inconclusive and is strongly context-dependent. high levels of accidents, crime and air pollution along the route to school were independently correlated with a lower likelihood of children walking or cycling to school. although walking for travel can help in reaching the daily recommended levels of physical activity, we know relatively little about the correlates of walking for travel in the european context. the present study supports findings from previous research regarding the role of the built environment in the promotion of walking for travel and provides new findings to help in achieving sustainable, healthy, livable, and walkable cities. impact of new transport infrastructure on walking, cycling, and physical activity. walking and cycling bring health and environmental benefits, but there is little robust evidence that changing the built environment promotes these activities in populations.
Walking in traffic areas in London improves lung function in elderly adults. [SEP] 
Whole brain radiotherapy increases the occurrence of new brain metastases. [SEP] whole-brain radiotherapy (wbrt) remains the primary approach for brain metastases, and hippocampal-avoidance wbrt (ha-wbrt) combined with neuroprotective agents can significantly reduce cognitive risks. stereotactic radiosurgery (srs) has shown survival benefits and less cognitive damage for patients with up to 10 brain metastatic lesions. regardless of whether the brain metastases had previously undergone radiation therapy, the novel drugs showed consistent activity, indicating promising improvements in the prognosis of brain metastases. clinical and genomic characterization of brain metastasis in thyroid cancer. brain metastasis in a patient with brca2-mutated treatment-related neuroendocrine prostate carcinoma and long-term response to radiotherapy and olaparib: a case report and literature review. consequently, the patient underwent resection of the brain metastases using gamma knife and whole-brain radiotherapy but died approximately 3 months later. additionally, the occurrence of relatively rare, fatal brain metastases in prostate cancer after a long period of cr suggests the necessity of regular brain imaging examinations. new brain metastases after whole-brain radiotherapy of initial brain metastases in breast cancer patients: the significance of molecular subtypes (krog 16-12). to identify the risk factors leading to new brain metastases (bm) following brain-directed treatment for initial bm resulting from breast cancer (bc). initial whole-brain radiotherapy (wbrt) reduced new bm rates (22.5% reduction at 1 year, p < 0.001) according to molecular subtype (hr+/her2-, 42% reduction at 1 year, p < 0.001; her2+, 18.5%, p = 0.004; tnbc, 16.9%, p = 0.071).
Women are more susceptible to death due to pneumonia when compared to men. [SEP] in covid-19 there is a remarkable disparity, with higher rates of mortality and more severe acute disease in men compared to women, who are mostly affected by long covid-19. indeed, men had a higher viral load in the tracheal aspirate and levels of dht were associated with increased relative risk of death. the incidence of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2) infection is higher in women than men (by about + 15%) and, in contrast, the fatality rate is higher in men (about + 50%). interestingly, the relationships between these quantities are linked to age: pre-adolescent girls and boys had the same risk of infection and fatality rate, while adult premenopausal women had a significantly higher risk of infection than men in the same 5-year age stratum (about 16,000 vs. 12,000 cases). compared with females, males are more susceptible to sars-cov-2 infection, have more severe covid-19 disease, and have higher death rates. in many countries, men are consistently more likely to die by a factor of almost 2. there are several reports of gender differences related to infection and death due to covid-19. several recent studies have shown that independent of age males are at higher risk for severity and mortality in covid-19 patients. although susceptibility to sars-cov-2 was found to be similar across both genders in several disease cohorts, a disproportionate death ratio in men can be partly explained by the higher burden of pre-existing diseases and occupational exposures among men. here we review the current knowledge about sex differences in susceptibility, the severity of infection and mortality, host immune responses, and the role of sex hormones in covid-19 disease.
Women with a lower birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. [SEP] 
YAP/TAZ is required in intestinal regeneration in mouse models of ulcerative colitis. [SEP] 
aPKCz causes tumour suppression by affecting glutamine metabolism. [SEP] glutamine deprivation enhances doxorubicin sensitivity in osteosarcoma by downregulating glud1 and promoting ros-mediated inhibition of wnt/β-catenin signaling. the effects of glutamine metabolism on osteosarcoma chemosensitivity were systematically evaluated using both in vitro and in vivo models. in conclusion, glutamine deprivation enhances doxorubicin sensitivity in osteosarcoma. notably, glud1-knockdown suppressed these metabolic pathways and significantly inhibited tumor growth both in vitro and in vivo. this study investigates how glutamine metabolism affects cd276 protein stability and esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (escc) progression. functional assays revealed that pcolce2 knockdown did not substantially affect cell proliferation but significantly impaired invasion and migration in crc cells, increased apoptosis, and suppressed both glutamine uptake and glutamate production—highlighting its oncogenic role. unexplored gene phka1 interplays between glucose metabolism and breast cancer. expression of the phka1 gene was found to be upregulated under an environment of high glucose and insulin in cancer cells. exposure of lung cancer cells to cigarette smoke extract led to increased uptake of glutamine and enhanced gapdh k251-su. amino acid reprogramming, such as increased consumption of glutamine and arginine by tumor cells, further hinders the activity and proliferation of cd8+ t cells.
cSMAC formation represses weak ligand signalling. [SEP] 
mcm 5 s 2 U is required for proper decoding of NNR codons in eukaryotes. [SEP] mechanistic characterization of the sulfur-relay system for eukaryotic 2-thiouridine biogenesis at trna wobble positions. the wobble modification in trnas, 5-methoxycarbonylmethyl-2-thiouridine (mcm(5)s(2)u), is required for the proper decoding of nnr codons in eukaryotes. the 2-thio group confers conformational rigidity of mcm(5)s(2)u by largely fixing the c3'-endo ribose puckering, ensuring stable and accurate codon-anticodon pairing. we have identified five genes in saccharomyces cerevisiae, yil008w (urm1), yhr111w (uba4), yor251c (tum1), ynl119w (ncs2) and ygl211w (ncs6), that are required for 2-thiolation of mcm(5)s(2)u. an in vitro sulfur transfer experiment revealed that tum1p stimulated the cysteine desulfurase of nfs1p, and accepted persulfide sulfurs from nfs1p. urm1 is a ubiquitin-related modifier, and uba4 is an e1-like enzyme involved in protein urmylation. the carboxy-terminus of urm1p was activated as an acyl-adenylate (-coamp), then thiocarboxylated (-cosh) by uba4p. the activated thiocarboxylate can be utilized in the subsequent reactions for 2-thiouridine formation, mediated by ncs2p/ncs6p. we could successfully reconstitute the 2-thiouridine formation in vitro using recombinant proteins. this study revealed that 2-thiouridine formation shares a pathway and chemical reactions with protein urmylation.
miR-142-5P is a known regulator of raised body temperature. [SEP] 
miR-142-5P is a temperature-sensitive microRNA (miRNA). [SEP] rbm3 regulates temperature sensitive mir-142-5p and mir-143 (thermomirs), which target immune genes and control fever. fever is commonly used to diagnose disease and is consistently associated with increased mortality in critically ill patients. however, the molecular controls of elevated body temperature are poorly understood. we discovered that the expression of rna-binding motif protein 3 (rbm3), known to respond to cold stress and to modulate microrna (mirna) expression, was reduced in 30 patients with fever, and in thp-1-derived macrophages maintained at a fever-like temperature (40 °c). notably, rbm3 expression is reduced during fever whether or not infection is demonstrable. reduced rbm3 expression resulted in increased expression of rbm3-targeted temperature-sensitive mirnas, we termed thermomirs. thermomirs such as mir-142-5p and mir-143 in turn target endogenous pyrogens including il-6, il6st, tlr2, pge2 and tnf to complete a negative feedback mechanism, which may be crucial to prevent pathological hyperthermia. using normal pbmcs that were exogenously exposed to fever-like temperature (40 °c), we further demonstrate the trend by which decreased levels of rbm3 were associated with increased levels of mir-142-5p and mir-143 and vice versa over a 24 h time course. collectively, our results indicate the existence of a negative feedback loop that regulates fever via reduced rbm3 levels and increased expression of mir-142-5p and mir-143.
miRNAs enforce homeostasis by suppressing low-level ''leaky'' transcription. [SEP] 
siRNA knockdown of A20 accelerates tumor progression in an in vivo murine xenograft model. [SEP] 
siRNA knockdown of A20 slows tumor progression in an in vivo murine xenograft model. [SEP] 
β-sheet opening occurs during pleurotolysin pore formation. [SEP] 
1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. [SEP] 
1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. [SEP] 
A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. [SEP] 
A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. [SEP] 
ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. [SEP] processing of  in addition to adenosine-to-inosine rna editing activities, adar1 has been shown to have various rna editing-independent activities including modulation of rnai efficacy. we previously reported that adar1 forms a heterodimer complex with dicer and facilitates processing of pre-mirnas to mature mirnas. in addition to mirna synthesis, dicer is involved in processing of long dsrnas into small rnas (endo-sirnas). generation of retrotransposon-derived endo-sirnas by dicer and their functions in regulation of transcripts in mouse oocytes has been previously reported. however, the synthesis and functions of endo-sirnas in somatic cells remain largely unknown. here, we report that adar1 together with dicer generates endogenous small rnas,
AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. [SEP] aire is induced in oral squamous cell carcinoma and promotes cancer gene expression. under pathological conditions, aire expression is induced in epidermal cells and promotes skin tumor development. this study aimed to clarify the role of aire in the pathogenesis of oral squamous cell carcinoma (oscc). aire expression was evaluated in six oscc cell lines and in oscc tissue specimens. this is a novel function of aire in extrathymic tissues under the pathological condition. moreover, aire expression has been demonstrated in skin tumors and breast cancer. we used immunohistochemistry to investigate aire expression in biopsy samples from 43 patients with conventional osteosarcoma and statistically analyzed the association between aire expression and clinicopathological characteristics. aire is involved in susceptibility to melanoma perhaps regulating t cell immunity against melanoma antigens (ma). keratin-dependent regulation of aire and gene expression in skin tumor keratinocytes. the role of aire polymorphisms in melanoma.
ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. [SEP] aldh1 and tumor infiltrating lymphocytes as predictors for neoadjuvant chemotherapy response in breast cancer. many studies have reported that aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 (aldh1) and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (til) are related to breast cancer prognosis. we studied the significance of the expression of aldh1 and the population of til for predicting the prognosis and chemotherapeutic response of patients with breast cancer who had received nac. the influences of aldh1 expression status and til populations on both prognosis and chemotherapeutic response were evaluated. aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 (aldh1) has been suggested as a surrogate biomarker for cancer stem cells in breast cancer and other tumors. we quantitatively measured aldh1 in two large cohorts of patients with non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) and investigated its prognostic value. detectable aldh1 predicted better prognosis in both cohorts (p = 0.0035 for the yale cohort; p = 0.0238 for the sotiria/patras cohorts). unlike breast cancer, in which aldh1 expression predicts poor outcome, in nsclc our exploratory and retrospective study indicates that aldh1 expression is associated with favorable outcome. tumour cell and stromal expression of aldh1 were evaluated. aldh1 expression is frequent in tumour-associated stromal cells of triple negative breast cancer and is associated with better outcome.
ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. [SEP] clinical significance and expression of aldh1 in triple-negative breast cancer. aldh1 expression and vasculogenic mimicry are positively associated with poor prognosis in patients with breast cancer. aldh1 expression and vm are correlated with the survival rate of patients with breast cancer. aldh1 and vm, either alone or together, are prognostic factors in patients with breast cancer. many reports suggest that aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 (aldh1) expression is associated with poorer neoadjuvant chemotherapy (nac) response in patients with breast cancer; however, the prognostic value of this enzyme in cancer has yet to be confirmed. our results suggested that higher aldh1 expression is associated with poorer nac responses in patients with breast cancer. aldh1a1 expression correlates with clinicopathologic features and poor prognosis of breast cancer patients: a systematic review and meta-analysis. the overall and subcategory analyses were performed to detect the association between aldh1a1 expression and clinicopathological/prognostic parameters in breast cancer patients. the prognosis of breast cancer patients with aldh1a1(+) tumors was poorer than that of the aldh1a1(-) patients. our results indicate that aldh1a1 is a biomarker to predict tumor progression and poor survival of breast cancer patients.
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. [SEP] epithelial sodium channels in endothelial cells mediate diet-induced endothelium stiffness and impaired vascular relaxation in obese female mice. mineralocorticoid receptor activation of the epithelial sodium channel in endothelial cells (ecs) (ennac) is accompanied by aldosterone induced endothelial stiffening and impaired nitric oxide (no)-mediated arterial relaxation. recent data support enhanced activity of the alpha subunit of ennac (αennac) mediates this aldosterone induced endothelial stiffening and associated endothelial no synthase (enos) activation. there is mounting evidence that diet induced obesity diminishes expression and activation of amp-activated protein kinase α (ampkα), sirtuin 1 (sirt1), which would be expected to lead to impaired downstream enos activation. thereby, we posited that enhanced ennac activation contributes to diet induced obesity related increases in stiffness of the endothelium and diminished no mediated vascular relaxation by increasing oxidative stress and related inhibition of ampkα, sirt1, and associated enos inactivation. sixteen to twenty week-old αennac knockout (αennac enhanced ennac activation-mediated wd-induced increases in sodium currents in isolated lung ecs, increased endothelial stiffness and impaired aortic endothelium-dependent relaxation to acetylcholine (10 these data suggest that endothelial specific ennac activation mediates wd-induced endothelial stiffness, impaired enos activation, aortic fibrosis and remodeling through increased aortic oxidative stress and increased inflammation related to a reduction of ampkα and sirt 1 mediated enos phosphorylation/activation and no production.
APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. [SEP] 
APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. [SEP] 
Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. [SEP] tp53 knockdown abolished sn-38's efficacy, while ppm1d knockdown enhanced sensitivity, confirming a tp53-dependent mechanism. immunoprecipitation followed by mass spectrometry was performed to identify proteasomal regulators of ppm1d, with their functional roles validated through knockdown experiments. proteasome inhibition resulted in ppm1d accumulation, potentially reducing therapeutic efficacy. combined proteasome and ppm1d inhibition synergistically enhanced the antitumor effect. the rapid degradation of the cancer driver ppm1d is achieved through direct recognition by the proteasome, and proteasome inhibitors may reduce therapeutic efficacy due to the accumulation of ppm1d. ppm1d may serve as a suitable model substrate for elucidating the mechanism of ubiquitin-independent proteasomal degradation and represents a potential novel therapeutic target for cancer treatment based on proteasome inhibition. protein phosphatase magnesium-dependent 1 delta (ppm1d) is a negative regulator of p53 and promotes cell survival upon induction of genotoxic stress. protein phosphatase magnesium-dependent 1 delta (ppm1d) is a negative regulator of p53 and has been implicated in termination of the cell cycle checkpoint. amplification of the ppm1d gene or frameshift mutations in its final exon promote tumorigenesis. we propose that increased activity of ppm1d suppresses the checkpoint function of p53 and thus promotes genome instability in cells expressing the ccne1 oncogene.
All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. [SEP] haematopoietic stem cells do not asymmetrically segregate chromosomes or retain brdu. stem cells are proposed to segregate chromosomes asymmetrically during self-renewing divisions so that older ('immortal') dna strands are retained in daughter stem cells whereas newly synthesized strands segregate to differentiating cells. stem cells are also proposed to retain dna labels, such as 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (brdu), either because they segregate chromosomes asymmetrically or because they divide slowly. however, the purity of stem cells among brdu-label-retaining cells has not been documented in any tissue, and the 'immortal strand hypothesis' has not been tested in a system with definitive stem cell markers. here we tested these hypotheses in haematopoietic stem cells (hscs), which can be highly purified using well characterized markers. we administered brdu to newborn mice, mice treated with cyclophosphamide and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, and normal adult mice for 4 to 10 days, followed by 70 days without brdu. in each case, less than 6% of hscs retained brdu and less than 0.5% of all brdu-retaining haematopoietic cells were hscs, revealing that brdu has poor specificity and poor sensitivity as an hsc marker. sequential administration of 5-chloro-2-deoxyuridine and 5-iodo-2-deoxyuridine indicated that all hscs segregate their chromosomes randomly. division of individual hscs in culture revealed no asymmetric segregation of the label. thus, hscs cannot be identified on the basis of brdu-label retention and do not retain older dna strands during division, indicating that these are not general properties of stem cells.
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. [SEP] expert opinion on the management of hyperkalemia in patients with cardiorenal diseases treated with renin angiotensin aldosterone system inhibitors: an indonesian perspective. hyperkalemia (serum potassium >5.0 meq/l) is a significant complication in patients with heart failure, chronic kidney disease, and diabetes mellitus, particularly when treated with renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system inhibitors (raasi). those developing esrd exhibited significantly higher total cholesterol levels, heavier proteinuria, a greater proportion of global glomerulosclerosis, more advanced interstitial fibrosis/tubular atrophy, and lower baseline egfr, along with lower use of renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (raas) inhibitors. renal effects can range from mild functional increases in creatinine to structural tubular injury. pharmacodynamic interactions associated with renal effects are observed, for example, with the combination of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids), angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors, and diuretics, or with combinations of vancomycin and aminoglycosides or piperacillin. among high-risk patients, clinicians reported increased prescribing of sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitors (62% vs. 40%), angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (73% vs. 49%), angiotensin receptor blockers (66% vs. 42%) and statins (57% vs. 32%), compared with standard care (all p < 0.0001). the presence of ckd increases the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events, overall mortality, and progression of renal damage leading to kidney failure. inhibiting the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (raas) through angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or angiotensin ii receptor blockers reduces proteinuria and slows egfr decline in ckd patients. impaired kidney function increases the risk of cardiovascular events, and vice versa. up to a decade ago, renin-angiotensin system inhibitors, that is angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin ii type 1 receptor blockers, were the only available pharmacological interventions to slow kidney function loss and limit the associated cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in this context.
Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. [SEP] 
Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile [SEP] defined nutrient diets alter susceptibility to clostridium difficile associated disease in a murine model. clostridium difficile is a major identifiable and treatable cause of antibiotic-associated diarrhea. select intestinal microbiota were measured in stool and c. difficile growth and toxin production were quantified ex vivo in intestinal contents from untreated or antibiotic-treated mice fed with the different diets. ex vivo inoculation of cecal contents from antibiotic-treated mice showed decreased toxin production and c. difficile growth in both defined diets compared with a traditional diet. associated diet-induced alterations in intestinal microbiota may influence colonization resistance and clostridial toxin production in a defined nutrient diet compared to a traditional diet, leading to increased survival. antibiotic-induced shifts in the mouse gut microbiome and metabolome increase susceptibility to clostridium difficile infection. antibiotics can have significant and long-lasting effects on the gastrointestinal tract microbiota, reducing colonization resistance against pathogens including clostridium difficile. here we show that antibiotic treatment induces substantial changes in the gut microbial community and in the metabolome of mice susceptible to c. difficile infection. in vitro and ex vivo analyses demonstrate that c. difficile can exploit specific metabolites that become more abundant in the mouse gut after antibiotics, including the primary bile acid taurocholate for germination, and carbon sources such as mannitol, fructose, sorbitol, raffinose and stachyose for growth. our results indicate that antibiotic-mediated alteration of the gut microbiome converts the global metabolic profile to one that favours c. difficile germination and growth.
Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. [SEP] 
Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. [SEP] 
Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. [SEP] open-access publishing for pharmacy-focused journals. pharmacy-focused journals that are available in open-access (oa), freely accessible, hybrid, or traditional formats were identified. relevant journals were accessed from pubmed, international pharmaceutical abstracts, embase, and the pharmacology and pharmacy category of thomson scientific journal citation reports. journals were assessed based on accessibility, copyright transfer requirements, and restrictions. the majority of pharmacy-focused journals identified were traditional/non-oa (n = 240). a smaller number of journals were freely accessible/ non-oa (n = 37), freely accessible/non-oa with content restrictions (n = 20), or freely available/non-oa with date restrictions (n = 18). the fewest number of journals were completely oa (n = 2). the median if for freely accessible and hybrid journals (n = 42) was 2.550, whereas the median if for traditional journals (n = 143) was 1.900. a very small number of pharmacy-focused journals adhere to the oa paradigm of access. however, journals that adopt some elements of the oa model, chiefly free accessibility, may be more likely to be cited than traditional journals.
Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. [SEP] 
Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. [SEP] pediatric uveitis, though accounting for less than 10% of all uveitis cases, presents significant diagnostic and therapeutic challenges due to its asymptomatic onset and potential for severe, vision-threatening complications. these findings suggest the need for risk-stratified ophthalmologic screening based on autoimmune diagnosis and age in pediatric patients requiring immunosuppressive therapy. the clock chart may aid in identifying asymptomatic glaucoma. patients' awareness and presenting symptoms at the onset of neovascular age-related macular degeneration in two distinct european cohorts. neovascular age-related macular degeneration (namd) is a common ocular condition in the elderly population. if left untreated, it can lead to significant visual impairment. uvescreen1: a randomised feasibility study of imaging-based uveitis screening for children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis- study protocol. optical coherence tomography of the ocular anterior segment (as-oct) has been shown to be an acceptable, repeatable and sensitive modality for uveitis detection, but is not standard care. participants with an existing diagnosis of uveitis, other ocular co-morbidities or those unable to complete examinations or provide informed assent will be excluded. development and validation of a risk scoring tool for predicting incident reversible cognitive frailty among community-dwelling older adults: a prospective cohort study.
Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. [SEP] 
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] 
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] 
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] 
Autophagy declines in aged organisms. [SEP] feedback loops between dnmt1 and autophagy as well as senescence promotes organ aging and canities. overexpression of atg8a, a key autophagy machinery gene homologous to mammalian lc3, specifically in follicle cells prevents age-associated decline in the follicle epithelium and loss of reproductive capacity. rhapontigenin alleviates cellular senescence and physiological aging by upregulating sirt1 and promoting autophagy. this study aimed to evaluate the potential of rhap to be used as an antiaging agent by investigating its effects on cellular senescence, physical function, immune modulation, and autophagy in both in vitro and in vivo aging models. senescence markers, cell viability, and autophagy-related protein levels were assessed. sirt1 knockdown attenuated the effects of rhap on autophagy and senescence, indicating the importance of sirt1 in mediating these beneficial effects. rhap is a promising candidate for mitigating age-related cellular and physiological decline by reducing cellular senescence, promoting autophagy, and modulating immune function. estrogen receptor-autophagy axis protects the heart, aorta and kidneys during perimenopausal aging: evidence from human cohort and mouse experiments. network pharmacology identified key molecular targets involved in estradiol-mediated pathways and mtor-regulated autophagy. this study underscores the crucial role of the estrogen receptor-autophagy axis in metabolic regulation and organ protection during perimenopause.
Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. [SEP] 
Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). [SEP] 
Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. [SEP] we aimed to assess the associations between body mass index and breast cancer incidence in east asian women. birthweight, childhood body size, and timing of puberty and risks of breast cancer by menopausal status and tumor receptor subtypes. associations of birthweight, childhood body size and pubertal timing with breast cancer risks by menopausal status and tumor receptor subtypes are inconclusive. we found that birthweight was not associated with any breast cancer subtypes. we showed that a high bmi and short stature in childhood are associated with reduced risks of certain breast cancer subtypes. thus, childhood body composition may play a role in the development of breast cancer. exploring the association between birthweight and breast cancer using summary statistics from a perspective of genetic correlation, mediation, and causality. previous studies demonstrated a positive relationship between birthweight and breast cancer; however, inconsistent, sometimes even controversial, observations also emerged, and the nature of such relationship remains unknown. using summary statistics of birthweight and breast cancer, we assessed the fetal/maternal-specific genetic correlation between them via ldsc and prioritized fetal/maternal-specific pleiotropic genes through maiup. with summary statistics we identified a positive genetic correlation between fetal-specific birthweight and breast cancer (r this study reveals that shared genetic foundation and causal mediation commonly drive the connection between the two traits, and that fetal/maternal-specific birthweight plays substantially distinct roles in such relationship.
Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. [SEP] 
Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. [SEP] it is mostly composed, at these stages, of erythrocytes and tissue-resident macrophages both of yolk sac origin, the latter persisting throughout life. macrophages are a heterogeneous population of mononuclear phagocytes abundantly distributed throughout the intestinal compartments that adapt to microenvironmental specific cues. in adult mice, the majority of intestinal macrophages exhibit a mature phenotype and are derived from blood monocytes. within the intestine of mice with colitis, there is a marked increase in the accumulation of immature macrophages that demonstrate an inflammatory phenotype. monocyte-macrophage polarization and recruitment pathways in the tumour microenvironment of b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. to elucidate the contribution of immune cells to the leukaemic microenvironment, we investigated the involvement of monocyte/macrophage compartments, as well as several recruitment pathways in b-all development. immunohistochemistry analyses showed that cd68-expressing macrophages were increased in leukaemic bm biopsies, compared to controls and predominantly expressed the m2-like markers cd163 and cd206. peripheral blood mononuclear cells were isolated from human blood, and surface markers to identify monocyte subpopulations were analyzed by flow cytometry. maturation-associated gene expression profiles along normal human bone marrow monopoiesis. human monopoiesis is a tightly coordinated process which starts in the bone marrow (bm) haematopoietic stem cell (hsc) compartment and leads to the production of circulating blood mature monocytes.
Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. [SEP] breast cancer is one of the most prevalent malignancies among women. pathway-level mutational signatures predict breast cancer outcomes and reveal therapeutic targets. in order to significantly improve the therapeutic treatment of breast cancer, the exploration of underlying genetic and molecular differences is absolutely necessary. a comprehensive analysis of breast cancer mutations was conducted by integrating data from three distinct databases with a total of 4586 samples encompassing over 25,000 genes. the three most significant genes were tp53 (hr: 2.04, p: 4.65 × 10 we assembled a comprehensive database of breast cancer samples and used this cohort to identify cancer-specific disruptive mutation signatures linked to altered survival outcomes. genetic evidence for causal effects of inflammatory protein factors on breast cancer. breast cancer (bc) represents a significant public health challenge characterized by complex pathogenic mechanisms. while inflammatory proteins are known to play crucial roles in cancer development, their causal relationships with breast cancer risk remain inadequately understood. germline pathogenic variants (pvs) in brca1/2 are the most common genetic risk factor for breast cancer, associated with poor prognostic factors. to the best of our knowledge, this is the first study suggesting an exclusive impact of germline brca1/2 mutations in cns metastatic breast cancer.
CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. [SEP] zranb1 promotes cell proliferation and lymph node metastasis through sf3b3-mediated alternative splicing of chek2 in urothelial bladder cancer. we demonstrated that while full-length chek2 is permissive for growth, the chek2-e4- isoform exerts a potent tumour-suppressive effect. zranb1 promotes tumorigenesis by stabilizing sf3b3 to prevent the generation of the tumour-suppressive chek2-e4- isoform, suggesting that zranb1 is a promising prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target. the most frequent combination was brca2-chek2 (n = 6). this publication is a review of the scientific literature on the impact of tp53, pten, palb2, chek2 pathogenic variants (pvs) predisposing to breast cancer. for chek2 carriers prophylactic mastectomy is only justified for women carrying a high-risk variant (i.e. contralateral breast cancer risks for brca1, brca2, palb2, chek2, and atm pathogenic variant carriers in two large cohort studies. all breast cancer (bc) patients have a risk of developing contralateral bc (cbc). we found no significantly elevated risks in palb2 (hr:1.9, 95%ci:0.9-3.8) or atm (hr:1.2, 95%ci:0.7-2.1) pv carriers. bc survivors carrying brca1, brca2, and chek2 pvs and er-negative bc survivors carrying palb2 pvs are at two-fold or higher cbc risks.
CR is associated with higher methylation age. [SEP] blood dna methylation signature of cognitive reserve moderates the association between csf tau pathology and memory in prodromal alzheimer's disease. we operationalized cr as memory reserve, defined by the attenuation of the cerebrospinal fluid (csf) phosphorylated tau threonine 181 (ptau181)-memory association and aimed to identify blood dna methylation (dnam) loci involved in memory reserve. dna methylation signature of cognitive reserve moderates csf tau pathology in prodromal alzheimer's disease. 24-mos of cr was associated with several favorable, anti-aging, anti-inflammatory changes in the glycome: increased galactosylation, reduced branching glycans, and reduced glycage. these intriguing findings linking cr, clinical, and glycomic changes may be anti-aging and inflammatory, and merit additional investigation. calorie restriction (cr) increases healthy life span and is accompanied by slowing or reversal of aging-associated dna methylation (dnam) changes in animal models. epigenome-wide association study (ewas) analysis tested cr-induced changes from baseline to 12 and 24 months in the n = 197 participants with available dnam data. cr treatment was not associated with epigenome-wide significant (false discovery rate [fdr] < 0.05) dnam changes at the individual-cpg-site level. in contrast, cr altered dnam at chronological-age-associated cpg sites in the direction of older age (p < .003 at 12- and 24-month follow-ups). dnam changes may contribute to cr effects on aging.
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival [SEP] 
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival [SEP] targeting unc5b in macrophages drives atherosclerosis regression and pro-resolving immune cell function. the neuroimmune guidance cue netrin-1 has dichotomous roles in inflammation partly due to its multiple receptors; in atherosclerosis, netrin-1 promotes macrophage survival and retention via its receptor unc5b. cx3cr1 is required for airway inflammation by promoting t helper cell survival and maintenance in inflamed lung. allergic asthma is a t helper type 2 (t(h)2)-dominated disease of the lung. in people with asthma, a fraction of cd4(+) t cells express the cx3cl1 receptor, cx3cr1, and cx3cl1 expression is increased in airway smooth muscle, lung endothelium and epithelium upon allergen challenge. here we found that untreated cx3cr1-deficient mice or wild-type (wt) mice treated with cx3cr1-blocking reagents show reduced lung disease upon allergen sensitization and challenge. transfer of wt cd4(+) t cells into cx3cr1-deficient mice restored the cardinal features of asthma, and cx3cr1-blocking reagents prevented airway inflammation in cx3cr1-deficient recipients injected with wt t(h)2 cells. we found that cx3cr1 signaling promoted t(h)2 survival in the inflamed lungs, and injection of b cell leukemia/lymphoma-2 protein (bcl-2)-transduced cx3cr1-deficient t(h)2 cells into cx3cr1-deficient mice restored asthma. cx3cr1-induced survival was also observed for t(h)1 cells upon airway inflammation but not under homeostatic conditions or upon peripheral inflammation. therefore, cx3cr1 and cx3cl1 may represent attractive therapeutic targets in asthma.
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. [SEP] in allergic asthma, allergen inhalation leads to local th2 cell activation and peribronchial inflammation. foxm1 promotes allergen-induced goblet cell metaplasia and pulmonary inflammation. herein, we demonstrated that pulmonary allergen sensitization induces expression of foxm1 transcription factor in airway epithelial and inflammatory cells. cx3cr1 is required for airway inflammation by promoting t helper cell survival and maintenance in inflamed lung. in people with asthma, a fraction of cd4(+) t cells express the cx3cl1 receptor, cx3cr1, and cx3cl1 expression is increased in airway smooth muscle, lung endothelium and epithelium upon allergen challenge. here we found that untreated cx3cr1-deficient mice or wild-type (wt) mice treated with cx3cr1-blocking reagents show reduced lung disease upon allergen sensitization and challenge. transfer of wt cd4(+) t cells into cx3cr1-deficient mice restored the cardinal features of asthma, and cx3cr1-blocking reagents prevented airway inflammation in cx3cr1-deficient recipients injected with wt t(h)2 cells. we found that cx3cr1 signaling promoted t(h)2 survival in the inflamed lungs, and injection of b cell leukemia/lymphoma-2 protein (bcl-2)-transduced cx3cr1-deficient t(h)2 cells into cx3cr1-deficient mice restored asthma. cx3cr1-induced survival was also observed for t(h)1 cells upon airway inflammation but not under homeostatic conditions or upon peripheral inflammation. therefore, cx3cr1 and cx3cl1 may represent attractive therapeutic targets in asthma.
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. [SEP] 
Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. [SEP] 
Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. [SEP] the role and mechanism of estrogen/estrogen receptor α in sexual identity determination of chicken somatic cells. unlike mammals, where systemic sex hormones determine somatic sexual identity, chickens primarily employ a cell-autonomous mechanism, known as the cell autonomous sexual identity (casi) hypothesis. sex-converted testis somatic cells acquire female-specific behaviors and alter xy germline identity. sex identity of somatic and germline cells must correspond for sperm or oocytes to be produced, with mismatched identity causing infertility in all organisms from flies to humans. however, the degree to which feminized somatic cells initiate female-specific cellular behaviors or influence the associated xy germline is unknown. the somatic sex determination gene rethinking sex determination of non-gonadal tissues. evolution of genetic mechanisms of sex determination led to two processes causing sex differences in somatic phenotypes: gonadal differentiation and sex chromosome dosage inequality. the inequality of sex chromosome gene expression causes sexual differentiation of the gonads and of non-gonadal tissues. in insects, somatic sexual differentiation has long been considered to be controlled strictly cell-autonomously.
Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. [SEP] 
Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. [SEP] 
Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. [SEP] growth performance and metabolic indices revealed that high-calorie feeding enhanced body weight and specific growth rate, whereas co-exposure to agnps significantly altered blood glucose and whole-body lipid status in a diet-dependent manner. this work aimed to determine whether attenuating energy deficits by providing low-volume energy-dense foods that may promote energy intake or consuming essential amino acid (eaa)-dense foods to facilitate an anabolic state preserves whole-body protein balance during strenuous cold-weather military training. energy expenditure (doubly labeled water) and dietary intake were measured daily. in this study, we evaluate the efficacy and safety of a flavonoid-rich medicinal herb extract (mhe) in a high-fat diet (hfd)-induced murine obesity model. daily oral administration of mhe does not alter food intake or induce hepatic injury but significantly attenuates hfd-induced weight gain ( given the critical role of hypothalamic orexigenic agouti-related peptide (agrp)-expressing neurons in maintaining whole-body energy balance, we further demonstrated that gallein suppressed appetite by inhibiting agrp neuronal activity. phosphatidylserine supplementation improves metabolic liver disease and glycemic control in the presence of suppressed oxidative glucose metabolism. we further showed that ps supplementation improved glycemic control and insulin sensitivity in male and female mice, which was associated with enhanced insulin signaling in muscle and liver, despite a pronounced suppression of glycolysis, glucose oxidation, and glycogen breakdown in liver, muscle, and/or adipose tissue. these findings indicate that ps exerts multifaceted benefits by improving both mash and whole-body glucose homeostasis, independent of conventional oxidative glucose metabolism. we show that dietary phosphatidylserine supplementation reduces hepatic lipid accumulation, inflammation, and liver fibrosis while further improving blood glucose control and insulin sensitivity in mice with mash and insulin resistance.
Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. [SEP] the proportion of gross energy intake lost as ch4 (ym) decreased (p < 0.01) by 22.8% and 27.6% in nop100 and nop150, respectively. in this study, we found that gallein, a gβγ inhibitor, can ameliorate diet-induced obesity (dio) and related metabolic dysfunction by suppressing appetite. given the critical role of hypothalamic orexigenic agouti-related peptide (agrp)-expressing neurons in maintaining whole-body energy balance, we further demonstrated that gallein suppressed appetite by inhibiting agrp neuronal activity. more importantly, specific inhibition of gβγ subunits in agrp neurons can inhibit the activation of agrp neurons, thereby reducing food intake and ameliorating dio and related metabolic dysfunction. participants with diabetes exhibited lower wbis and fatty acid-driven and complex i-linked respiration compared with control participants. hepatic lipid and glucose metabolism have been shown to be under tight circadian control in pre-clinical models. phosphatidylserine supplementation improves metabolic liver disease and glycemic control in the presence of suppressed oxidative glucose metabolism. these findings indicate that ps exerts multifaceted benefits by improving both mash and whole-body glucose homeostasis, independent of conventional oxidative glucose metabolism. we show that dietary phosphatidylserine supplementation reduces hepatic lipid accumulation, inflammation, and liver fibrosis while further improving blood glucose control and insulin sensitivity in mice with mash and insulin resistance. improvements in glycemic control are present despite suppression of glycolysis, glucose oxidation, and glycogen breakdown in liver, skeletal muscle, and/or adipose tissue.
Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. [SEP] vascular nitric oxide and oxidative stress: determinants of endothelial adaptations to cardiovascular disease and to physical activity. evidence supports a major contribution by oxidative stress-induced destruction of nitric oxide to the endothelial dysfunction that accompanies a number of cardiovascular disease states including hypertension, diabetes, chronic heart failure, and atherosclerosis. numerous studies support the hypothesis that exercise training improves vascular endothelial function, especially when it has been impaired by preexisting risk factors. molecular targets sensitive to the exercise training effect include the endothelial nitric oxide synthase and the antioxidant enzyme superoxide dismutase. the working hypothesis is that some of the cellular mechanisms contributing to endothelial dysfunction in cardiovascular disease can be targeted and reversed by signals associated with regular increases in physical activity. the capacity for exercise training to regulate vascular endothelial function, nitric oxide bioavailability, and oxidative stress is an example of how lifestyle can complement medicine and pharmacology in the prevention and management of cardiovascular disease. we tested whether daily exercise training improves systemic hemodynamics and preserves endothelium-mediated vasodilator function during development of heart failure. exercise training preserved normal hemodynamics at rest, endothelium-mediated vasodilator function, and gene expression of ecnos (0.72+/-0.16 versus normal, p=ns). inhibition of no synthesis (nitro-l-arginine) in exercise-trained dogs abolished the preserved endothelium-mediated vasodilation of epicardial coronary arteries and elevated left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (7.7+/-0.3 to 19+/-3.4 mm hg, p<.05), suggesting that the preservation of resting hemodynamics was in large part due to preserved endothelial function concealing the underlying chf state. chronically increased flow may improve impaired endothelium-dependent relaxation of the vessel wall and the oxidative capacity may increase, in part, due to a training effect.
Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. [SEP] approved therapeutic options, such as mono- or combination nicotine replacement therapy and varenicline, are described alongside considerations for implementation in both outpatient and inpatient care settings. time-varying mediated effects of the nicotine patch on smoking before and after a quit attempt when it is added to varenicline and counseling. adding nicotine patches to varenicline and counseling improves positive affect in ways that predict lower next-day smoking risk in the first days of attempts to quit smoking but does not significantly improve withdrawal management or sustain confidence in quitting. addition of bupropion or varenicline to nicotine replacement therapy after acute coronary syndrome: a propensity-matched real-world analysis. two co-primary propensity-matched (1:1, 50 covariates, caliper 0.10 sd) comparisons evaluated bupropion + nrt and varenicline + nrt individually versus nrt alone; a supportive analysis evaluated combined pharmacotherapy versus nrt alone. both varenicline and bupropion individually showed lower mortality and mace. there are 3 first-line therapies designed for smoking cessation in combination with behavioral support; these include nicotine replacement therapy, varenicline, and bupropion. this proof-of-concept trial aimed to extend this work by testing whether the efficacy of varenicline relative to nicotine replacement treatment differs across the two neuroaffective reactivity profiles. twelve weeks of varenicline or nrt combined with brief cessation counseling. smokers seeking to quit who attribute greater incentive salience to cigarette-related cues than non-cigarette-related rewards benefit more from varenicline than from nicotine replacement therapy.
Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. [SEP] targeting β-catenin overcomes mek inhibition resistance in colon cancer with kras and pik3ca mutations. mitogen-activated protein kinases (mek 1/2) are central components of the ras signalling pathway and are attractive targets for cancer therapy. these agents continue to be investigated in kras mutant colon cancer but are met with significant resistance. we investigated a biomarker of response for mek inhibition in kras mutant colon cancers by lc-ms/ms analysis. we tested the mek inhibitor in pik3ca wild(wt) and mutant(mt) colon cancer cells. in addition, we tested the combinational effects of mek and tnks inhibitor in vitro and in vivo. mek inhibition led to a decrease in β-catenin in pik3ca wt colon cancer cells but not in mt. tumour regression was promoted by combination of mek inhibition and nvp-tns656, which targets the wnt pathway. furthermore, inhibition of mek promoted tumour regression in colon cancer patient-derived xenograft models expressing pik3ca wt. we propose that inhibition of the wnt pathway, particularly β-catenin, may bypass resistance to mek inhibition in human pik3ca mt colon cancer.
Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. [SEP] 
Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. [SEP] 
Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. [SEP] semi-automated, quantitative immunofluorescence analysis of single cell cytochrome c release during apoptotic cell death. pro-apoptotic members such as bax and bak form pores in the mitochondrial outer membrane, releasing intermembrane space proteins like cytochrome c into the cytoplasm. cytochrome c release serves as a hallmark and point of no return in the apoptotic cascade. diverse functions of cytochrome c in cell death and disease. upon its release into the extracellular space, cytochrome c may act as an immune mediator during cell death processes, highlighting its multifaceted role in cellular biology. intrinsic apoptosis as a modality of regulated cell death is intimately linked to permeabilization of the outer mitochondrial membrane and subsequent release of the protein cytochrome c into the cytosol, where it can participate in caspase activation via apoptosome formation. interestingly, cytochrome c release is an ancient feature of regulated cell death even in unicellular eukaryotes that do not contain an apoptosome. therefore, it was speculated that cytochrome c release might have an additional, more fundamental role for cell death signalling, because its absence from mitochondria disrupts oxidative phosphorylation. here, we permanently anchored cytochrome c with a transmembrane segment to the inner mitochondrial membrane of the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae, thereby inhibiting its release from mitochondria during regulated cell death. the most well studied example of this is found in animals, where the release of mitochondrial cytochrome c nucleates the formation of the apoptosome, which then activates caspase mediated cell death.
Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. [SEP] 
Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. [SEP] αvβ8 integrin, a key activator of transforming growth factor β (tgf-β), inhibits anti-tumor immunity. αvβ8 is expressed at the highest levels in cd4+cd25+ t cells in tumors, and specific deletion of β8 from t cells is as effective as adwa-11 in suppressing tumor growth. these findings solidify αvβ8 integrin as a promising target for cancer immunotherapy. impaired αvβ8 and tgfβ signaling lead to microglial dysmaturation and neuromotor dysfunction. here we show that conditional deletion of αvβ8 from the central nervous system ( integrin αvβ8-mediated tgf-β activation by effector regulatory t cells is essential for suppression of t-cell-mediated inflammation. treg-cell-specific deletion of integrin αvβ8 did not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype, suggesting that this pathway is not important in treg-cell-mediated maintenance of immune homeostasis. however, treg cells lacking expression of integrin αvβ8 were unable to suppress pathogenic t cell responses during active inflammation. deletions of the genes encoding the integrin αvβ8 (itgav, itgb8) have been shown to result in abnormal vascular development in the cns, including prenatal and perinatal hemorrhage. consistent with αvβ8's role in tgfβ1 activation, we show that retinal deletion of tgfb1 results in very similar retinal vascular abnormalities.
Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. [SEP] this study aims to evaluate the efficacy of dexamethasone and tranexamic acid, or a combination of both, in reducing intraoperative bleeding, postoperative edema, and ecchymosis in patients undergoing rhinoplasty. the findings indicated that tranexamic acid and dexamethasone significantly improved patient outcomes because they decreased intraoperative bleeding, edema, and ecchymosis. in addition, the incidence of ponv, postoperative vas score, and use of antiemetic and analgesic rescue were significantly decreased without increasing the risk of early surgical wound infection and gastrointestinal hemorrhage in patients receiving dexamethasone. the anti-inflammatory effects of dexamethasone can attenuate the apr after simbtha as well as decrease the ponv, postoperative vas score, and use of antiemetic and analgesic rescue. systematic reviews have shown that dexamethasone does not increase risk of posttonsillectomy bleeding. at this point, surgeons and anesthesiologists should feel comfortable giving perioperative dexamethasone but must remain vigilant for bleeding complications. dexamethasone is effective in preventing postoperative nausea without increased risk of bleeding. dexamethasone, 0.5 mg/kg, was associated with the highest bleeding risk (adjusted relative risk, 6.80; 95% ci, 1.77-16.5). eight children had to undergo emergency reoperation because of bleeding, all of whom had received dexamethasone. in this study of children undergoing tonsillectomy, dexamethasone decreased the risk of ponv dose dependently but was associated with an increased risk of postoperative bleeding.
Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. [SEP] b adamik, d jakubczyk, a kübler p052 - frequency and outcome of early sepsis-associated coagulopathy a. radford, t. lee, j. a case-control pilot study e. scarlatescu, d. tomescu, g. droc, s. arama p054 - thromboelastometry in critically ill patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation m. müller, m. straat, s. s. zeerleder, n. p. juffermans p055 - cessation of a preexisting chronic antiplatelet therapy is associated with increased mortality rates in severe sepsis and septic shock c. f. fuchs, c. s. scheer, s. w. wauschkuhn, m. v. vollmer, k. m. meissner, s. k. kuhn, k. h. hahnenkamp, s. r. rehberg, m. g. gründling p056 - neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) production under hypoxic condition n. yamamoto, m. ojima, s. hamaguchi, t. hirose, y. akeda, r. takegawa, o. tasaki, t. shimazu, k. tomono p057 - impact of ultraviolet air sterilizer in intensive care unit room, and clinical outcomes of patients e. gómez-sánchez, m. heredia-rodríguez, e. álvarez-fuente, m. lorenzo-lópez, e. gómez-pesquera, m. aragón-camino, p. liu-zhu, a. sánchez-lópez, a. hernández-lozano, m. t. peláez-jareño, e. tamayo p058 - focus of infection in severe sepsis - comparison of administrative data and prospective cohorts from germany d. o. thomas-rüddel, c. fleischmann, c. haas, u. dennler, k. reinhart p059 - “zero clabsi” – can we get there? r. iqbal, y. alhamdi, n. venugopal, s. abrams, c. downey, c. h. toh, i. d. welters p128 - validity of the age-adjusted d-dimer cutoff in patients with copd b. bombay, j. m. chauny, r. d. daoust, j. l. lessard, m. m. marquis, j. p. paquet p129 - a scoping review of strategies for prevention and management of bleeding following paediatric cardiopulmonary bypass surgery k. siemens, d. sangaran, b. j. a. murdoch, s. m. tibby p130 - nadir hemoglobulin during cardiopulmonary bypass: impact on postoperative morbidity and mortality f. ampatzidou, d. moisidou, e. dalampini, m. nastou, e. vasilarou, v. kalaizi, h. chatzikostenoglou, g. drossos p131 - red blood cell transfusion do not influence the prognostic value of rdw in critically ill patients s. spadaro, a. fogagnolo, t. fiore, a. schiavi, v. fontana, f. taccone, c. volta p132 - reasons for admission in the paediatric intensive care unit and the need for blood and blood products transfusions e. chochliourou, e. volakli, a. violaki, e. samkinidou, g. evlavis, v. panagiotidou, m. sdougka p133 - the implementation of a massive haemorrhage protocol (mhp) for the management of major trauma: a ten year, single-centre study r. mothukuri, c. battle, k. guy, g. mills, p. evans p134 - an integrated major haemorrhage protocol for pre-hospital and retrieval medical teams j. wijesuriya, s. keogh p135 - the impact of transfusion thresholds on mortality and cardiovascular events in patients with cardiovascular disease (non-cardiac surgery): a systematic review and meta-analysis a. docherty, r. o’donnell, s. brunskill, m. trivella, c. doree, l. holst, m. parker, m. gregersen, j. almeida, t. walsh, s. stanworth p136 - the relationship between poor pre-operative immune status and outcome from cardiac surgery is specific to the peri-operative antigenic threat s. moravcova, j. mansell, a. rogers, r. a. smith, c. hamilton-davies p137 - impact of simple clinical practice guidelines for reducing post-operative atrial fibrillation after cardiac surgery. m. waraich , j. doyle, t. samuels, l. forni p211 - identification of risk factors for the development of acute kidney injury after lower limb arthroplasty n. desai, r. baumber, p. gunning, a. sell p212 - incidences and associations of acute kidney injury after major trauma s. lin, h. torrence, m. o’dwyer, c. kirwan, j. prowle p213 - acute kidney injury of major trauma patients t kim p214 - trajectory of serum creatinine after major surgery and the diagnosis of acute kidney injury m. e. o’connor, r. w. hewson, c. j. kirwan, r. m. pearse, j. prowle p215 - epidemiology of acute kidney injury after cardiac surgery. r. tincu, c. cobilinschi, d. tomescu, z. ghiorghiu, r. macovei p294 - parenteral selenium in the critically ill: an updated systematic review and meta-analysis w. manzanares, p. langlois, m. lemieux, g. elke, f. bloos, k. reinhart, d. heyland p295 - probiotics in the critically ill: an updated systematic review and meta-analysis p. langlois, m. lemieux, i. aramendi, d. heyland, w. manzanares p296 - diabetes with hyperglycemic crisis episodes may be associated with higher risk of pancreatic cancer: a population-based cohort study y. su p297 - incidence of hypoglycemia in an intensive care unit depending on insulin protocol r. marinho, n. babo, a. marinho p298 - severity of the diseases is two-dimensionally correlated to blood glucose, including blood glucose variability, especially in moderately to severely ill patients with glucose intolerance. m. hoshino, y. haraguchi, s. kajiwara, t. mitsuhashi, t. tsubata, m. aida p299 - a study of glycemic control by subcutaneous glargine injection transition from continuous regular insulin infusion in critically ill patients t. rattanapraphat, r. bhurayanontachai, c. kongkamol, b. khwannimit p300 - glycemic control in portuguese intensive care unit r. marinho, m. santos, h. castro, e. lafuente, a. salgueiro, s. cabral, p. martins, j. moura, b. oliveira, m. melo, b. xavier, j. valente, c. magalhaes, p. casteloes, a. marinho p301 - impact of hyperglycemia duration on the day of operation on short-term outcome of cardiac surgery patients d. moisidou, f. ampatzidou, c. koutsogiannidis, m. moschopoulou, g. drossos p302 - lactate levels in diabetic ketoacidosis patients at icu admissions g. taskin, m. çakir, ak güler, a. taskin, n. öcal, s. özer, l. yamanel p303 - intensive care implications of merging heart attack centre units in london j. m. wong, c. fitton, s. anwar, s. stacey p304 - special characteristics of in-hospital cardiac arrests m. aggou, b. fyntanidou, s. patsatzakis, e. oloktsidou, k. lolakos, e. papapostolou, v. grosomanidis p305 - clinical evaluation of icu-admitted patients who were resuscitated in the general medicine ward s. suda , t. ikeda, s. ono, t. ueno, y. izutani p306 - serious game evaluation of a one-hour training basic life support session for secondary school students: new tools for future bystanders s. gaudry, v. desailly, p. pasquier, pb brun, at tesnieres, jd ricard, d. dreyfuss, a. mignon p307 - public and clinical staff perceptions and knowledge of cpr compared to local and national data j. a. rubio, r. sierra p336 red blood cell transfusion in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage – the sahara cohort study s. english, m. chasse, a. turgeon, f. lauzier, d. griesdale, a. garland, d. fergusson, r. zarychanski, a. tinmouth, c. van walraven, k. montroy, j. ziegler, r. dupont chouinard, r. carignan, a. dhaliwal, c. lum, j. sinclair, g. pagliarello, l. mcintyre p337 - aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and anemia: a canadian multi-centre retrospective cohort study s. english, m. chasse, a. turgeon, f. lauzier, d. griesdale, a. garland, d. fergusson, r. zarychanski, a. tinmouth, c. van walraven, k. montroy, j. ziegler, r. dupont chouinard, r. carignan, a. dhaliwal, c. lum, j. sinclair, g. pagliarello, l. mcintyre p338 - does the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte (nlr) ratio predict symptomatic vasospasm or delayed cerebral ischemia (dci) after aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (sah)? p. killeen, m. mcphail, w. bernal, j. maggs, j. wendon, t. hughes p382 - systemic inflammatory response syndrome criteria and hospital mortality prediction in a brazilian cohort of critically ill patients l. u. taniguchi, e. m. siqueira, j. m. vieira jr, l. c. azevedo p383 - evaluating the efficacy of a risk predictor panel in identifying patients at elevated risk of morbidity following emergency admission a. n. ahmad, m. abu-habsa, r. bahl, e. helme, s. hadfield, r. loveridge p384 - a retrospective comparison of outcomes for elective surgical patients admitted post-operatively to the critical care unit or general ward j. shak, c. senver, r. howard-griffin p385 - effect of obesity on mortality in surgical critically ill patients.
Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. [SEP] 
Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. [SEP] 
Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. [SEP] 
Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. [SEP] 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. [SEP] apoe4 allele is associated with elevated cholesterol levels, and increased risk of various metabolic and age-related diseases, such as cardiovascular disease and dementia. the apoe4 allele significantly increases alzheimer's disease (ad) risk, often linked to brain lipid imbalance. in alzheimer's disease, carriage of the apolipoprotein e ε4 (apoe4) risk allele is linked to faster tau accumulation at lower amyloid-pet levels, thereby accelerating disease progression. the apolipoprotein e (apoe) gene is the best established genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disease in later life, with the ε4 allele conferring higher risk. the ε4 allele of apolipoprotein e (apoe4) is the strongest genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disease (ad), increasing ad risk about fourfold in ~ 34 million american and ~ 75 million european females. the role of apoe ε4 in modulating the relationship between non-genetic risk factors and dementia: a system review and meta-analysis. the ε4 allele of the apolipoprotein e gene (apoe ε4) is the strongest genetic risk factor for dementia. however, it remains unclear whether apoe ε4 status modulates the associations of non-genetic risk factors and dementia risk. additionally, the subgroup analyses stratified by apoe ε4 status indicated that nine other factors may influence risk differentially between carriers and noncarriers, though the associations were not significant in meta-regression (vitamin e intake, heart failure, serum neurofilament light chain, serum testosterone, agitation, air no evidence from the current investigation suggests that apoe ε4 defines distinct etiological pathways for dementia, underscoring the promise of genotype-tailored prevention strategies. association of early life risk factors and apoe ε4 with incident dementia: evidence from 14 years of u.s. data.
FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). [SEP] modulatory effects of alpha-mangostin mediated by sirt1/3-foxo3a pathway in oxidative stress-induced neuronal cells. c10orf10/depp, a transcriptional target of foxo3, regulates ros-sensitivity in human neuroblastoma. foxo transcription factors control cellular levels of reactive oxygen species (ros) which critically contribute to cell survival and cell death in neuroblastoma. in the present study we investigated the regulation of c10orf10/depp by the transcription factor foxo3. foxo3-mediated apoptosis involves a biphasic ros accumulation. knockdown of depp prevented the primary and secondary ros wave during foxo3 activation and attenuated foxo3- and h2o2-induced apoptosis. because mammalian homolog of the forkhead family of transcription factors, forkhead box o transcription factor 3a (foxo3a), controls ros metabolism, we asked whether foxo3a could affect the fate of differentiated neurons in the paradigm of hive. we observed foxo3a nuclear translocation in hg-treated neuronal cultures, accompanied by partial loss of mitochondrial potential and gradual retraction of neuronal processes. addition of tnfα to hg-treated neurons increased expression of the foxo-dependent proapoptotic gene bim, which resulted in extensive apoptotic death. the clinical relevance of these findings is supported by detection of nuclear foxo3a in tunel-positive cortical neurons from hive, especially in brain areas characterized by elevated tnfα.
Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. [SEP] 
GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. [SEP] enforced expression of the gata-3 transcription factor affects cell fate decisions in hematopoiesis. three gata family transcription factors are involved in various aspects of hematopoiesis. we focused on the role of gata-3 to determine whether an intrinsic variation among different gata proteins, in addition to the distinct expression pattern, determines lineage specification. using a retroviral vector, we introduced the gata-3 gene into primary murine hematopoietic stem cells (hsc) and examined their development in in vitro suspension culture and colony-forming assays as well as in vivo competitive repopulation studies. although gata-3 expression normally is restricted to lymphoid precursor and committed t cells, overexpression of gata-3 in hsc results in cessation of cell expansion followed by selective induction of megakaryocytic and erythroid differentiation and inhibition of myeloid and lymphoid precursor development in liquid suspension culture and in vitro colony-forming assays. competitive repopulation studies show that transplanted gata-3-expressing hsc/progenitor cells give one wave of erythrocyte development but fail to expand in the bone marrow or to reconstitute other lineages. the selective megakaryocytic/erythroid differentiation in hsc with enforced gata-3 expression suggests a functional redundancy among gata proteins and indicates that the specific lineage fate determination by individual gata proteins is largely regulated at the level of expression in a lineage and developmental-stage restricted fashion, whereas the identity of the gata factor may not be as important. flrf, a novel evolutionarily conserved ring finger gene, is differentially expressed in mouse fetal and adult hematopoietic stem cells and progenitors. through differential screening of mouse hematopoietic stem cell (hsc) and progenitor subtracted cdna libraries we have identified a hsc-specific transcript that represents a novel ring finger gene, named flrf (fetal liver ring finger). the analysis of the genomic sequence upstream of the first exon in the mouse and human flrf gene has revealed that both putative promoters contain multiple putative binding sites for several hematopoietic (gata-1, gata-2, gata-3, ikaros, scl/tal-1, aml1, mzf-1, and lmo2) and other transcription factors, suggesting that mouse and human flrf expression could be regulated in a developmental and cell-specific manner during hematopoiesis.
Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. [SEP] exosomal mir-27a-5p helps differentiate parathyroid carcinoma from adenoma and inhibits apoptosis in parathyroid carcinoma cells. we have reported previously that exosomal mir-27a-5p is different in pc or pa, although there are no published studies on a large number of samples, with the role of mir-27a-5p in regulating the effects of pc progression remaining unknown. the current study was designed to investigate the differential expression pattern of exosomal mir-27a-5p in both pc and pa and its relationship with clinicopathologic features, with the aim of further investigating the effect of pc at the cellular level. the differential expression of exosomal mir-27a-5p was detected in 29 pc and 36 pa patients. primary pc cells were obtained by primary cell culture, while the effect of exosomes on pc cell apoptosis was investigated using mir-27a-5p mimic transfection and exosome mixed culture. exosomal mir-27a-5p differed significantly in pc and pa and was upregulated in pc with good diagnostic efficacy. spatial transcriptomics (st) has emerged as a transformative technology that bridges this gap, enabling the mapping of gene expression back to its histological coordinates. microarray data (gse2596; gpl1053) were obtained from the gene expression omnibus. a compact gene signature shows strong internal diagnostic performance, supported by experimental validation, warranting external confirmation. a parallel nucleic acid extraction method yielded high-quality rna suitable for gene expression analyses.
Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. [SEP] machine learning-based analysis identifies glucose metabolism-related genes adpgk as potential diagnostic biomarkers for clear cell renal cell carcinoma. clear cell renal cell carcinoma, with its high morbidity and mortality, is one of the more difficult diseases in the world and still lacks an effective therapeutic target. the primary way they break down glucose is through aerobic glycolysis, which leads to energy acquisition and synthesis of the material base required for cell growth. although targeting glucose metabolism has driven the development of a variety of tumour therapies, the specific regulatory mechanisms remain unclear. therefore, based on machine learning analysis algorithms, we analysed the correlation between glycometabolic pathways and ccrcc in the reactome database and verified the impact of the key gene  we utilised a total of 89 gene collections of glucose metabolism pathways from the reactome (https://reactome.org/) database as the data base for our study. to uncover potential therapeutic target genes, we adopt three machine learning algorithms (lasso, rf, and boruta). we reassigned the 7 screened genes based on gene expression differences between cancer and paracancerous tissues, and applied an unsupervised consensus clustering algorithm to establish a typology based on the expression of glucose metabolism-related genes ( we identified  our results suggest that targeting the glucose metabolism pathway can kill ccrcc cells.
Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. [SEP] rtms has a favorable safety profile, however, headaches are a common side effect. we assessed associations between headache occurrence and stimulation parameters (motor threshold, stimulation intensity), as well as patient characteristics (age, gender, baseline depression severity). treatment-emergent headaches occurred more frequently in younger patients (p = 0.03) and women (p = 0.001), with no differences in headache occurrence observed across stimulation parameters. patients who reported headaches had higher baseline depression scores (p = 0.0008) and maintained slightly elevated symptoms throughout treatment. headache occurrence did not significantly affect overall clinical response rates but was associated with improved treatment retention. while the occurrence of headaches is common, they had no impact on clinical outcomes and can improve retention if correctly managed. behavioral interventions for people with headache (ha) diseases have demonstrated clinical efficacy. persistent headache burden after surgical treatment of post-dural puncture headache: a cross-sectional study. we assessed headache disability, functional status, and psychosocial burden among respondents self-reporting prior surgery for pdph or dural-puncture-related csf leak. among respondents in this self-selected online cohort, persistent headache burden and psychosocial impairment were frequently reported, whereas complete symptom remission was reported by a minority of respondents.
High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. [SEP] cardiorespiratory fitness as a key predictor of metabolic, inflammatory, and oxidative stress biomarkers in adults with different physical activity levels. sedentary lifestyles are associated with poor cardiorespiratory fitness (crf) and predispose individuals to cardiometabolic diseases and increased all-cause mortality, events related to oxidative stress and inflammation. although, historically, older patients were considered high-risk candidates, recent studies implicate frailty as a more comprehensive measure of perioperative fitness. cardiorespiratory fitness and morbidity and mortality in patients with non-small cell lung cancer: a prospective study with propensity score weighting. this study aimed to investigate the association between cardiorespiratory fitness (crf) and perioperative morbidity and long-term mortality in operable patients with early-stage non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc). low cardiorespiratory fitness is significantly associated with increased perioperative morbidity and long-term mortality in operable patients with early-stage non-small cell lung cancer.future research is recommended to investigate the potential prognostic role of integrating cardiorespiratory fitness into the currently used prognosis algorithm for patients with non-small cell lung cancer. independent and joint associations of exercise blood pressure and cardiorespiratory fitness with the risk of cardiovascular mortality. we tested the hypothesis that an exaggerated systolic blood pressure (esbp) at maximal exercise workload would be associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease (cvd) mortality, and that high cardiorespiratory fitness (crf) attenuates this risk. in the joint association analyses of esbp and crf, ≥210 mm hg-unfit group had a higher risk of cvd mortality (hr 1.70, 1.02-2.83), but also ≥210 mm hg-fit group had an increased risk of cvd death (hr 1.95, 1.20-3.18) compared with their <210 mm hg-fit counterparts. cardiorespiratory fitness (crf) is reduced in cancer survivors and predicts cardiovascular disease (cvd)-related and all-cause mortality.
High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). [SEP] inflammatory response in exacerbations of copd: clinical and predictive roles of c-reactive protein. this narrative review aims to summarize the diagnostic, therapeutic, and prognostic role of crp in ecopd. elevated crp at presentation is associated with greater exacerbation severity, increased need for ventilatory support, and longer hospital stay. acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) severely impact patient health, and current treatments often fail to adequately control inflammation and lung function decline. patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) who have high serum levels of c-reactive protein (crp), a marker of low-grade systemic inflammation, exhibit reduced lung functions and a worse prognosis. to study the relationship between n/l ratio and crp levels and spirometry in copd patients. fev1, fvc%, fev1/fvc%, n/l ratio, and crp were significantly ( this study concludes that the fev1, fvc, and fev1/fvc ratio were lower in severe copd patients, and it also reveals that individuals with severe copd have elevated levels of serum crp and n/l ratio, which correlates with the severity of copd. elevated n/l ratio and crp level may be used as non invasive predictors and cost-effective tools for copd patients at the primary health centre level for screening of the severity of copd patients. acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (aecopd) is associated with a higher risk of cardiovascular disease (cvd). serum tnf-alpha and high-sensitivity crp levels in patients with copd and ms were significantly higher (p < 0.05) than those of copd alone.
High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). [SEP] 
Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. [SEP] 
Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. [SEP] 
Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. [SEP] 
Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. [SEP] 
Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. [SEP] 
Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. [SEP] the cognitive consequences of hypoglycemia in diabetes. while its acute effects on cognition are well documented, growing evidence suggests that recurrent or severe hypoglycemia exposure may also contribute to long-term cognitive decline and increased risk of dementia in patients with diabetes. moreover, meta-analyses and cohort studies highlight a significant association between severe hypoglycemia and increased risk of dementia while cognitive impairment has been shown to also increase the risk of hypoglycemia. this suggests a potential bidirectional relationship between hypoglycemia and cognitive decline. this review summarizes the current understanding of the impact of hypoglycemia on brain function, including its structural, cellular, metabolic, and cognitive consequences. the hidden link between diabetes and dementia: findings from recent epidemiological studies. recent epidemiological studies investigating the link between diabetes mellitus and dementia or alzheimer's disease are narratively reviewed. diabetes mellitus is associated with a significantly higher risk of dementia by 56%, more predominant for vascular dementia than alzheimer's disease and tau pathology is more remarkable than amyloid β deposition. cause-specific cox models supported a higher dementia hazard in insulin users (hr ≈ 1.26; 95% ci 1.08–1.48;  although a similar mean cognitive decline was observed in both t2d groups, insulin exposure was associated with an increased risk of dementia. fluctuations in blood glucose levels, including episodes of hypoglycemia, increase the risk of dementia.
Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. [SEP] it is well documented that the hormone leptin regulates energy balance via its actions in the hypothalamus. however, evidence is accumulating that leptin plays a key role in numerous cns functions. in the hippocampus leptin has been shown to facilitate n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor function and modulate synaptic plasticity. a role for leptin in cerebellar function is also indicated as leptin-deficient rodents display reduced mobility that is unrelated to obesity. in addition, given that n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor activity in the cerebellum is crucial for normal locomotor function, these data also have important implications for the potential role of leptin in the control of movement. glutamate neurons in hypothalamus regulate excitatory transmission. the hypothalamus is the crucial part of the brain that regulates homeostasis throughout the body. in contrast to the prevailing belief that hypothalamic neurons use peptides, neuromodulators, or other slow-acting agents as their principal neuroactive substances, we present data indicating that the primary excitatory transmitter released by medial hypothalamic neurons is glutamate. this surprising new evidence is based on three converging approaches: immunogold cytochemistry revealed that some hypothalamic neurons and their processes in vitro contained high amounts of immunoreactive glutamate. electrophysiological analysis of whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from single and pairs of monosynaptically coupled hypothalamic neurons in culture showed that virtually all spontaneous and evoked epsps appear to be mediated by synaptic secretion of glutamate.
IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. [SEP] differential innate immune response programs in neuronal subtypes determine susceptibility to infection in the brain by positive-stranded rna viruses. although susceptibility of neurons in the brain to microbial infection is a major determinant of clinical outcome, little is known about the molecular factors governing this vulnerability. here we show that two types of neurons from distinct brain regions showed differential permissivity to replication of several positive-stranded rna viruses. granule cell neurons of the cerebellum and cortical neurons from the cerebral cortex have unique innate immune programs that confer differential susceptibility to viral infection ex vivo and in vivo. by transducing cortical neurons with genes that were expressed more highly in granule cell neurons, we identified three interferon-stimulated genes (isgs; ifi27, irg1 and rsad2 (also known as viperin)) that mediated the antiviral effects against different neurotropic viruses. moreover, we found that the epigenetic state and microrna (mirna)-mediated regulation of isgs correlates with enhanced antiviral response in granule cell neurons. thus, neurons from evolutionarily distinct brain regions have unique innate immune signatures, which probably contribute to their relative permissiveness to infection.
In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. [SEP] 
In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. [SEP] 
In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. [SEP] adhd remote technology and adhd transition: predicting and preventing negative outcomes (art-transition) - an adolescent prospective cohort study protocol. late adolescence is a highly challenging and potentially critical period for young people with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd). many of the conditions that frequently co-occur with adhd, such as depression, often first emerge in adolescence. additionally, uk data show that most young people with adhd do not successfully transfer to adult services and thus do not receive appropriate interventions at a time when they may need them most. attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd) is the most common neurobehavioral condition of childhood and can be controlled with stimulant medication. adhd remote technology study of cardiometabolic risk factors and medication adherence (art-carma): a multi-centre prospective cohort study protocol. emerging evidence points at substantial comorbidity between adult attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd) and cardiometabolic diseases, but our understanding of the comorbidity and how to manage cardiometabolic disease in adults with adhd is limited. the adhd remote technology study of cardiometabolic risk factors and medication adherence (art-carma) project uses remote measurement technology to obtain real-world data from daily life to assess the extent to which adhd medication treatment and physical activity, individually and jointly, may influence cardiometabolic risks in adults with adhd. the long-term goal is to use these data to improve the management of cardiometabolic disease in adults with adhd, and to improve adhd medication treatment adherence and the personalisation of treatment. similar effects have been used in video game therapies like akili interactive's endeavorrx, which has previously been approved by the food and drug administration (fda) as a treatment regimen for children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd).
Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. [SEP] among females significant mortality excess for liver cirrhosis (35 deaths, 25 expected) emerged, while mortality from cardiovascular diseases and ischemic heart diseases were significantly lower than expected. long-term trends in the incidence of heart failure after myocardial infarction. although mortality after myocardial infarction (mi) has declined in the united states in recent decades, there have been few community-based investigations of the long-term trends in the incidence of heart failure after mi, and their results appear to be conflicting. we assessed the incidence rates of heart failure and of death without heart failure in each of 3 decades (1970 to 1979, 1980 to 1989, and 1990 to 1999). the 30-day incidence of heart failure after mi rose from 10% in 1970 to 1979 to 23.1% in 1990 to 1999 (p for trend 0.003), whereas 30-day mortality after mi declined from 12.2% (1970 to 1979) to 4.1% (1990 to 1999). the 5-year incidence of heart failure after mi rose from 27.6% in 1970 to 1979 to 31.9% in 1990 to 1999 (p for trend 0.02), whereas 5-year mortality after mi declined from 41.1% (1970 to 1979) to 17.3% (1990 to 1999). in the present community-based sample, we observed an increase in the incidence of heart failure in recent decades that paralleled the decrease in mortality after mi. furthermore, in the uk and netherlands, osf rates (particularly for mitral valves) declined with time since implantation, and between-country differences were considerably diminished 10 or more years post implantation. during the study period, the age-specific incidence of mi decreased in males above 50 years of age, but was virtually unchanged in females, increasing the proportion of women in the mi population from 26 to 33%. within 10 years of the establishment of the people's republic, maternal mortality in china had fallen by 98%.
Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. [SEP] during the first two months of the pandemic, cancer testing decreased across all health systems and cancer types (range18-96%). disease burden of cervical cancer in china from 1990 to 2023 and prediction of future trends. these findings provide an evidence-based foundation for advancing china's cervical cancer elimination strategy. trends in age-standardized incidence rates of cancers of hpv-related cancer sites in osaka, japan: 1977-2019. squamous cell carcinoma of the anus decreased from 1997 to 2004, but then increased thereafter. similarly, penile cancer decreased from 1977 to 1995, but then increased. comparative analysis of cervical cancer burden trends between china and g20 countries from 1990 to 2023 with projections to 2035: a population-based observational study. from 1990 to 2023, the age-standardized incidence rate of cervical cancer in china declined from 17.32 per 100,000 to 12.06 per 100,000 (eapc: -1.04), with a 52.4% reduction in mortality rate, significantly outperforming the 31.8% reduction observed in g20 countries. projections suggest that cervical cancer deaths in china will decline by 40.9% from 2023 to 2035, compared to only 7.9% in g20 countries. china has achieved remarkable progress in cervical cancer prevention and control, with epidemiological improvements effectively offsetting the adverse impacts of demographic factors.
Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. [SEP] 
Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. [SEP] 
Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. [SEP] 
Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. [SEP] 
Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. [SEP] cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (cbt-i) is internationally recommended as the first-line treatment, and digital cbt-i (dcbt-i) has been developed to improve accessibility and scalability. although cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (cbt-i) is recommended as the first-line non-pharmacological treatment for chronic insomnia, internet-based acceptance and commitment therapy (iact) has increasingly been explored as an alternative or complementary digital psychological intervention for improving sleep-related outcomes. despite several limitations, nonpharmacological interventions, particularly cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia and techniques reducing sympathetic hyperarousal (acupuncture, yoga, massage), seem to be the most robust first-line options for peri- and postmenopausal women suffering from chronic insomnia, whereas pharmacological treatments still require longer and better designed studies to establish their long-term efficacy and safety. the effectiveness of a cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia based intervention to improve sleep quality in nursing home residents, a cluster randomised controlled trial. to evaluate the effectiveness of a structured, team-delivered intervention based on cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia (cbt-i) on sleep and related outcomes in nursing home residents. cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (cbt-i) is widely recommended, but access remains limited, particularly among rural adults. cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia (cbt-i) is recommended as first-line treatment for insomnia disorder. efficacy of fully automated digital cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia in adults: a systematic review and meta-analysis. fully automated digital cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (dcbt-i) is increasingly used as a scalable intervention for adults with insomnia. fully automated dcbt-i appears to be an effective intervention for adults with insomnia.
LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. [SEP] we characterized the presence of pcsk9 in healthy and atherosclerotic human tissues and demonstrated that pcsk9 present in the aortic wall is not synthesized locally. lipid-related cardiovascular risk beyond low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. the aim of this review is to give an overview of lipid-related risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd) beyond low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol. high ldl cholesterol is a key driver of ascvd as shown in several interventional, mechanistic, observational and genetic studies. therefore, the focus has for decades been on lowering ldl cholesterol levels. association of epicardial adipose tissue thickness and left ventricular functions in children with primary dyslipidemia. dyslipidemic patients showed significantly higher total cholesterol (332.9 ± 222.3 mg/dl), triglycerides (391.4 ± 251.6 mg/dl), and ldl (154.3 ± 130.4 mg/dl) than controls (p < 0.001). serum triglycerides were the only independent predictor of eft, suggesting its key role in subclinical cardiovascular risk among dyslipidemic children. coronary artery disease (cad) is among the leading causes behind the morbidity and mortality of the world population. among others, low-density lipoprotein (ldl) is one of the main drivers behind the development of cad, and the ldl receptor (ldlr) plays a central role in cholesterol homeostasis by facilitating the clearance of ldl cholesterol from the blood.
Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. [SEP] the incidence of hemolytic and serologic transfusion reactions among patients with hematological malignancies at mbarara regional referral hospital and the uganda cancer institute, in uganda. blood transfusions are essential in the supportive care of patients with hematological malignancies but carry a risk of adverse reactions. this study evaluated the incidence of hemolytic and serologic transfusion reactions among patients with hematological malignancies at mbarara regional referral hospital and the uganda cancer institute in uganda. this prospective cohort study enrolled hospitalized patients aged ≥2 years with hematological malignancies and a history of prior red blood cell (rbc) transfusions. in multivariable analysis, an independent association with increased risk for infections was found for hemoglobin level <8 g/dl, platelet count <50x109/l, absolute neutrophil count <0.8x109/l, intermediate/poor/very poor cytogenetics, and having received red blood cell transfusions at baseline. association of febrile neutropenia episodes and blood product transfusions in children with acute leukemia. in this study, we aimed to reveal the possible effects of blood product transfusions on febrile neutropenia episodes (fnes) in children with acute leukemia. complications were more frequent, neutrophil count was lower, durations of neutropenia and medical treatment were longer in patients who had ≥ 3 transfusions.bacteremia, gram-negative bacteria, and polymicrobial infections were more common in children who received plt transfusions. cardiac surgery is known to have high rates of perioperative red blood cell (rbc) transfusions which are associated with increased postoperative mortality and morbidity. conclusions we found a heightened risk of ssi in patients with a history of blood transfusions, emphasizing the need for careful consideration and monitoring during the perioperative period.
Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. [SEP] benefits and risks of red blood cell transfusion in pediatric patients undergoing cardiac surgery. as the number of neonates and young infants undergoing cardiac surgery requiring cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) increases, red blood cell (rbc) transfusion will continue to be an integral part of the practice of pediatric cardiac anesthesiology. the known benefits of rbc transfusion include an increase in the oxygen-carrying capacity of blood, improved tissue oxygenation, and improved hemostasis. unfortunately, there is no minimum hemoglobin level that serves as a transfusion trigger for all pediatric patients undergoing cardiac surgery. physiologic signs such as tachycardia, hypotension, low mixed venous oxygen saturation and increased oxygen extraction ratios can provide objective evidence of the need to augment a given hemoglobin level. nevertheless, the benefits of rbc transfusion must be balanced against its risks and, in recent years, rbc transfusion has been subjected to intense scrutiny. the adverse consequences of rbc transfusion include the transmission of infectious diseases and immune-mediated and nonimmune-mediated complications. advances in donor selection, infectious disease testing of donated blood, use of leukocyte reduction and irradiation of blood in defined situations have improved the safety of the blood supply in terms of infection transmission. however, a growing number of prospective randomized clinical trials are finding an association between rbc transfusion and an increased risk of morbidity and mortality even with the use of leuko-reduced blood. this review addresses the benefits and risks of rbc transfusion, pertinent data acquired in the setting of congenital cardiac surgery and techniques designed to minimize the need for rbc transfusion.
Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. [SEP] 
Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. [SEP] 
Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. [SEP] 
Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. [SEP] the effects of cd146±mscs on raw264.7 phagocytosis and lps-stimulated polarization were studied using a co-culture protocol. cd146±mscs were injected into lps-induced sepsis mice by tail vein. in vitro, cd146+mscs could significantly increase the proportion of treg cells. co-culture with cd146+mscs increase the phagocytic rate of raw264.7. cd146+mscs regulate m2-type macrophages production more rapidly. cd146+mscs decreased no production and increased arg1 expression. cd146+mscs secreted higher level of il15,ifnγ, vegf and lower level of il1β, il8 under lps stimuli. in vivo, the level of il10 at 24h and cxcl1, ifnγ at 12h in cd146+mscs group was the highest. cd146+mscs treatment enhances the phagocytic capacity of peritoneal macrophages. cd146+mscs also increases the ratios of cd11b+ly6c compared with cd146-mscs, cd146+mscs can accelerate the end of the inflammatory response and have robust anti-inflammatory effects, by increasing the treg cells, promoting macrophage phagocytosis, enhancing the reparative macrophage, secreting more vegf, etc.
Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. [SEP] 
Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. [SEP] liposomal delivery of azithromycin enhances its immunotherapeutic efficacy and reduces toxicity in myocardial infarction. l-azm reduced cardiac toxicity and associated mortality by 50% in mice. inhibition of autophagy by geniposide protects against myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury. but the effects and the potential mechanisms of gp on myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (i/r) injury are poorly understood. the infarct-limiting effect of rapa was obliterated in cardiac-specific mirna-17-92-deficient diabetic mice. although rapamycin exerts cardioprotective effects against myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (mi/r) injury in normal animals, whether rapamycin-elicited cardioprotection is altered in the presence of lvh has yet to be determined. rapamycin produced marked cardioprotection in normal control mice, whereas pressure overload induced cardiac hypertrophied mice manifested enhanced myocardial injury, and was refractory to rapamycin-elicited cardioprotection evidenced by augmented infarct size, aggravated cardiomyocyte apoptosis, and worsening cardiac function. in summary, despite apparent mitochondrial dysfunction, hearts deficient in both mfn1 and mfn2 are protected against acute myocardial infarction due to impaired mitochondria/sr tethering. myocardial infarct size (is) was significantly reduced in rapamycin-treated mice (13.3 ± 2.4 %) compared to dmso vehicle control (35.9 ± 0.9 %) or wt mice (27.7 ± 1.1 %). such protection was absent in cardiomyocytes from hfd-fed stat3-deficient mice.
Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. [SEP] liposomal delivery of azithromycin enhances its immunotherapeutic efficacy and reduces toxicity in myocardial infarction. a growing body of evidence shows that altering the inflammatory response by alternative macrophage polarization is protective against complications related to acute myocardial infarction (mi). we demonstrate that the liposomal formulation of azm enhances the drug's efficacy and safety in an animal model of acute myocardial injury. inhibition of autophagy by geniposide protects against myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury. the results showed that gp reduced myocardial infarct size, alleviated acute myocardial injury, improved cardiac function, regulated apoptosis-related proteins and inhibited apoptosis. in summary, our results showed that gp protected against myocardial i/r injury and involved inhibition of autophagy, which might be through activating akt/mtor signaling pathways. we therefore investigated the infarct-limiting effect of chronic treatment with rapamycin (rapa, mtor inhibitor) in diabetic mice following myocardial ischaemia/reperfusion (i/r) injury and delineated the potential protective mechanism. we hypothesized that rapamycin, given at the onset of reperfusion, reduces myocardial infarct size through modulation of mtor complexes. considering the potent cardioprotective effect of mtor inhibitor, rapamycin, we hypothesized that reperfusion therapy with rapamycin would reduce infarct size in the diabetic hearts through stat3 signaling. myocardial infarct size (is) was significantly reduced in rapamycin-treated mice (13.3 ± 2.4 %) compared to dmso vehicle control (35.9 ± 0.9 %) or wt mice (27.7 ± 1.1 %).
Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. [SEP] plasma membrane v-atpase controls oncogenic ras-induced macropinocytosis. cells that express oncogenic ras are able to internalize and degrade extracellular protein via a fluid-phase uptake mechanism termed macropinocytosis the pervasiveness of macropinocytosis in oncological malignancies. in tumour cells, macropinocytosis functions as an amino acid supply route and supports cancer cell survival and proliferation. initially demonstrated in oncogenic kras-driven models of pancreatic cancer, macropinocytosis triggers the internalization of extracellular proteins via discrete endocytic vesicles called macropinosomes. these protein-derived amino acids support metabolic fitness by contributing to the intracellular amino acid pools, as well as to the biosynthesis of central carbon metabolites. in this way, macropinocytosis represents a novel amino acid supply route that tumour cells use to survive the nutrient-poor conditions of the tumour microenvironment. macropinocytosis has also emerged as an entry mechanism for a variety of nanomedicines, suggesting that macropinocytosis regulation in the tumour setting can be harnessed for the delivery of anti-cancer therapeutics. in this review, we focus on the role of this important uptake mechanism in a variety of cancers and highlight the main molecular drivers of macropinocytosis in these malignancies. this article is part of the theo murphy meeting issue 'macropinocytosis'.
Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. [SEP] 
Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. [SEP] 
Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. [SEP] 
Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. [SEP] optimization of recombinant human interferon-gamma expression and purification in  recombinant human interferon gamma (rhifn-γ) and monoclonal antibodies are promising biomolecules for improving clinical medicines worldwide due to their biomedical applications. although fca has been reported to produce high antibody titers with notable side effects, this study found no significant difference in antibody levels between mice immunized with 100 µg rhifnγ mixed with fca and the group immunized with 100 µg rhifnγ plus ribi adjuvant. one possible explanation is that laboratory mice lack the robust preexisting memory t cell repertoire that is a key feature of the human immune system. we therefore investigated how inducing t cell memory by treating c57bl6 mice with anti-cd3ε activating antibody ("immune-educated" mice) affected the pulmonary immune response to the cecal ligation and puncture (clp)1 model of sepsis. twenty-four hours after clp, immune-educated mice had higher alveolar inflammatory cytokine and chemokine concentrations and more pulmonary interstitial macrophages than what was observed in untreated ("uneducated") animals. finally, to evaluate whether observed differences in clp-induced lung inflammation between educated and uneducated mice are driven by ifn we subjected educated and uneducated mice to ifn blockade at the time of clp. ifn blockade resulted in higher absolute numbers of t cells, memory t cells, and innate cells in the lungs of educated mice 24 hours post-clp suggesting that ifn acts as an immune-regulator and curbs an overactive immune response in these mice. loss of the tumor suppressor pten activates cell-intrinsic interferon signaling to drive immune resistance. our study suggests an interferon adaptation model in which tumors driven by pten deficiency inherently activate the interferon response, enabling them to adapt to interferon cytotoxicity and gain resistance to immunotherapies. the enzyme linked immunosorbent assay method deciphered that the vaccinated group had a higher level of ifn (interferon)-γ and il (interleukin)-4 levels compared to control groups (p < 0.05).
MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis [SEP] 
Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. [SEP] involved and uninvolved psoriatic keratinocytes display a resistance to apoptosis that may contribute to epidermal thickness. the position of apoptotic dysregulation was found to be upstream of cytochrome c release in the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway. using human non-small-cell lung cancer a549 cells, osu03013 dose-dependently induced apoptosis. a similar increase in apoptosis was evident using the cell death elisa assay. osu03013-induced apoptosis was accompanied by a reduction in the mitochondrial membrane potential, the release of cytochrome c and the cleavage of caspase-3. these data demonstrate that osu03013 induces apoptosis in a549 cells via the mitochondrial pathway. inhibition of the akt pathway appears uninvolved in this toxicity, although akt can provide protection. an electron-microscope study of the mode of cell death induced by cancer-chemotherapeutic agents in populations of proliferating normal and neoplastic cells. injection of the cancer-chemotherapeutic agents actinomycin d, mitomycin c, cytosine arabinoside and cycloheximide massively enhanced the rate of apoptosis in each situation, the morphology of cell death induced by these drugs being fundamentally different from that of coagulative necrosis, which developed without treatment in the centres of solid nodules that grew after subcutaneous inoculation of the tumour. the significance of the fact that cancer-chemotherapeutic agents induce a type of cell death that is found in normal tissues is at present unknown.
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. [SEP] cadherins are cell-surface proteins that mediate cell-cell adhesion. antagonists of cadherin adhesion such as monoclonal antibodies and small molecule inhibitors based on hav peptides, are of high therapeutic value in cancer treatment. monospecific antibody targeting of cdh11 inhibits epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and represses cancer stem cell-like phenotype by up-regulating mir-335 in metastatic breast cancer, in vitro and in vivo. we also demonstrated, for the first time to the best of our knowledge that exposure to anti-cdh11 antibody suppresses metastasis, reduces cdh11, fn and β-catenin expression, and abrogate the cancer stem cell (csc)-like traits of mbc cells. a novel monoclonal antibody targeting a novel epitope of ve‑cadherin inhibits vasculogenic mimicry of lung cancer cells. our results suggested that the ec4 domain participates in ve‑cadherin clustering and the antibody targeting the ec4 domain of ve‑cadherin may be a promising anti‑vasculogenic mimicry agent for cancer treatment. cadherin-17 (cdh17) has been implicated as protumorigenic for many years, but mechanisms have been unclear. cadherin composition and multicellular aggregate invasion in organotypic models of epithelial ovarian cancer intraperitoneal metastasis. clinical studies have shown heterogeneity among eoc metastatic units with respect to cadherin expression profiles and invasive behavior; however, the impact of distinct cadherin profiles on peritoneal anchoring of metastatic lesions remains poorly understood. in the current study, we demonstrate that metastasis-associated behaviors of ovarian cancer cells and mcas are influenced by cellular cadherin composition.
Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. [SEP] genome-wide measurement of dna replication fork directionality and quantification of dna replication initiation and termination with okazaki fragment sequencing. to reveal the location of replication initiation and termination in the human genome, we developed okazaki fragment sequencing (ok-seq), a quantitative approach based on the isolation and strand-specific sequencing of okazaki fragments, the lagging strand replication intermediates. ok-seq quantitates the proportion of leftward- and rightward-oriented forks at every genomic locus and reveals the location and efficiency of replication initiation and termination events. here we provide the detailed experimental procedures for performing ok-seq in unperturbed cultured human cells and budding yeast and the bioinformatics pipelines for data processing and computation of replication fork directionality. furthermore, we present the analytical approach based on a hidden markov model, which allows automated detection of ascending, descending and flat replication fork directionality segments revealing the zones of replication initiation, termination and unidirectional fork movement across the entire genome. dna molecular combing-based replication fork directionality profiling. single-molecule analyses of specific loci can detect both common and rare initiation events along the targeted regions. however, these usually concentrate on positioning individual events, which only gives an overview of the replication dynamics. these profiles reconstituted rfd domains composed of zones of initiation flanking a zone of termination originally observed in mammalian genomes and were highly consistent with independent population-averaging profiles generated by okazaki fragment sequencing. our method can both generate quantitative profiles and identify discrete events, thereby constituting a comprehensive approach to study metazoan genome replication.
Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. [SEP] 
N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). [SEP] n348i confers resistance to both the nrti zidovudine (zdv) and the nnrti nevirapine (nvp) and was also found to be associated with m184v and to compensate for deficits associated with the latter mutation. n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase counteracts the synergy between zidovudine and nevirapine. n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase confers decreased susceptibility to zidovudine and nevirapine. n348i in the context of polymerase domain mutations reduced susceptibility to nvp (8.9-13-fold), efv (4-56-fold), etravirine (etv; 1.9-4.7-fold) and decreased hypersusceptibility to zidovudine (azt; 1.4-2.2-fold). the prevalence of n348i was more popular among those patients whose art regimens containing zidovudine (azt or zdv) than those without azt in regimens (14.1% vs. 4.7%, χ² = 10.21, p < 0.01). n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase (rt) confers resistance to zidovudine (azt) and nevirapine. this study demonstrates that n348i-mediated azt and nevirapine resistance is due to the mutation in the p51 subunit of rt. phenotypic analysis of c-terminal mutations showed that n348i, t369v and a371v conferred reduced susceptibility to zidovudine in the context of the tam-1 and/or tam-2 pathway, and also conferred dual resistance to nevirapine. other mutations, such as d488e and q547k, showed tam-specific enhancement of resistance to zidovudine. finally, mutation g359s displayed a zidovudine hypersusceptibility phenotype, both per se and when combined with a371v.
NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. [SEP] 
NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. [SEP] 
Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. [SEP] cancer-targeted nucleic acid delivery and quantum dot imaging using egf receptor aptamer-conjugated lipid nanoparticles. co-application of fluorescent quantum dot nanocrystals and therapeutics has recently become a promising theranostic methodology for cancer treatment. we developed a tumor-targeted lipid nanocarrier that demonstrates notable efficacy in gene delivery as well as tumor bio-imaging. coupling of aptamer molecules against the egf receptor (egfr) to the distal termini of lipid nanoparticles provided the carrier with tumor-specific recognition capability. the cationic lipid component, referred to as o,o'-dimyristyl-n-lysyl glutamate (dmke), was able to effectively complex with anionic small-interfering rna (sirna). the hydrophobic quantum dots (q-dots) were effectively incorporated in hydrophobic lipid bilayers at an appropriate q-dot to lipid ratio. in this study, we optimized the liposomal formula of aptamer-conjugated liposomes containing q-dots and sirna molecules (apt-qls). the anti-egfr apt-qls exhibited remarkable egfr-dependent sirna delivery as well as fluorescence imaging, which were analyzed in cultured cancer cells and tumor xenografts in mice. these results imply that the formulation of apt-qls could be widely utilized as a carrier for tumor-directed gene delivery and bio-imaging.
Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. [SEP] myeloperoxidase influences the complement regulatory activity of complement factor h. the interaction between neutrophils and activation of alternative complement pathway plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of anca-associated vasculitis (aav). mpo, which can be released from anca-stimulated neutrophils, was recently demonstrated to be capable of activating the alternative complement pathway. detection of fh and mpo on neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) induced by serum from aav patients and in kidney biopsies of aav patients was performed by immunostaining. fh deposited and co-localized with mpo in nets. our findings indicate that mpo binds to fh and influences the complement regulatory activity of fh. mpo-fh interaction may participate in the pathogenesis of aav by contributing to activation of the alternative complement pathway. netting neutrophils in autoimmune small-vessel vasculitis. small-vessel vasculitis (svv) is a chronic autoinflammatory condition linked to antineutrophil cytoplasm autoantibodies (ancas). here we show that chromatin fibers, so-called neutrophil extracellular traps (nets), are released by anca-stimulated neutrophils and contain the targeted autoantigens proteinase-3 (pr3) and myeloperoxidase (mpo). deposition of nets in inflamed kidneys and circulating mpo-dna complexes suggest that net formation triggers vasculitis and promotes the autoimmune response against neutrophil components in individuals with svv.
New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. [SEP] one strategy for discovering new tuberculosis (tb) drugs is to target essential proteins within validated biosynthetic pathways. a new persister enrichment model in  prolonged combination chemotherapy is required to cure tuberculosis, in part because  tuberculosis treatment requires prolonged multidrug chemotherapy in part because future-proofing tuberculosis therapy: framework for concurrent drug and resistance testing development. a major barrier is the delay in developing reliable tools to detect resistance to novel compounds, which limits clinical decision-making and surveillance efforts. herein, we outline a framework for integrating the development of drug susceptibility testing alongside tuberculosis drug development, including early stage resistance profiling and defining appropriate epidemiological cutoff values. we propose a roadmap to accelerate drug susceptibility testing and development of new tuberculosis regimens, ensuring that resistance detection maintains pace with the introduction of novel drugs. efficacy and safety of a 4-month quabodepistat, delamanid, and bedaquiline regimen for drug-susceptible pulmonary tuberculosis: a multicentre, open-label, randomised, proof-of-concept, non-inferiority, phase 2b/c trial. combined therapy with delamanid, bedaquiline, and quabodepistat (dbq) showed potent early bactericidal activity and was well tolerated in a phase 2a, 14-day early bactericidal activity trial in participants with drug-susceptible pulmonary tuberculosis. tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-α) inhibitors are widely used in rheumatologic diseases but may increase the risk of primary tuberculosis (tb) infection or reactivation. patients with prior tb, previous anti-tnf exposure, or a positive baseline ppd were excluded.
Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. [SEP] 
Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. [SEP] transcription factor runx1 plays key roles in the establishment and maintenance of the hematopoietic system. although runx1 has been considered a beneficial tumor suppressor, several recent reports have described the tumor-promoting role of runx1 in a variety of hematopoietic neoplasms. in this study, we assessed the effect of runx1 depletion in multiple human leukemia cell lines using the clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (crispr)/cas9 system, and confirmed that runx1 is in fact required for sustaining their leukemic proliferation. to achieve efficient runx1 inhibition in leukemia cells, we then examined the effect of lipid nanoparticle (lnp)-mediated delivery of runx1-targeting small interfering (si)rna using two tumor-tropic lnps. runx1 is essential for mesenchymal stem cell proliferation and myofibroblast differentiation. tgf-β1-regulated runt-related transcription factor 1 (runx1) was required for cell cycle progression and proliferation of progenitors. runx1 also inhibited, yet did not block, differentiation. knockdown of runx1 in prostate or bone marrow-derived mscs resulted in cell cycle arrest, attenuated proliferation, and constitutive differentiation to myofibroblasts. these data show that runx1 is a key transcription factor for msc proliferation and cell fate commitment in myofibroblast differentiation. targeting runx1 pathways may represent a therapeutic approach to affect myofibroblast proliferation and biology in multiple disease states.
Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. [SEP] factors associated with eating behaviors of young and middle-aged adults with overweight and obesity: a systematic review. the escalating prevalence of overweight and obesity among young and middle-aged adults constitutes a significant public health challenge. these findings critically indicate that eating behaviors in this population often serve as compensatory mechanisms for emotional and environmental strain rather than solely reflecting nutritional choices. associations were linear across the full bmi range, not driven solely by obesity. depression and obesity are highly comorbid and likely involve common risk factors and pathophysiological mechanisms, which could crosslink to gut microbiome dysfunction. survey-derived neighbourhood health indicators, including obesity rate, physical inactivity, and median age were strong predictors of diabetes prevalence. an estimated 25.9% and 43.5% of cs deliveries were attributable to maternal overweight and obesity. weight stigma in adolescents: sex differences, prevalence, emotional impact, and associations with bmi increases - a retrospective cohort study. weight stigma is an important public health concern due to its association with increased stress and adverse health outcomes, including poor metabolic health and weight gain. while females generally experienced higher emotional impact, males who reported high levels of emotional impact from stigma exhibited comparable risks of large bmi increases ( the study confirms that weight stigma during adolescence is associated with significant weight increases in young adulthood in both sexes.
Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. [SEP] 
Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs [SEP] 
Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. [SEP] 
PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. [SEP] reduced monocytic il10 expression in pd1 inhibitor-treated patients is a harbinger of severe immune-related adverse events. despite remarkable clinical efficacy, little is known about the system-wide immunological alterations provoked by pd1 blockade. dynamics of quantitative immune composition and functional repertoire during pd1 blockade could delineate cohort-specific patterns of treatment response and therapy-induced toxicity. we longitudinally assessed therapy-induced effects on the immune system in fresh whole blood using flow cytometry-based cell quantifications, accompanied by analyses of effector properties of all major immune populations upon cell-type specific stimulations. 43 cancer patients undergoing pd1 blockade were recruited with assessments performed pre-treatment and before cycles 2/4/6, which resulted in the collection of more than 30,000 cytometric data values. we observed no intrinsic immune pattern correlating with clinical outcome before pd1 blockade initiation, but cohort-specific immune alterations emerged during therapy. the most striking evolving changes in therapy responders were an increase in activated t and nk cell subsets, which showed high ifnγ and tnfα expression upon ex vivo stimulation. patients affected by severe immune-related adverse events (s-irae) presented with an analogously increased number of activated cd4  our holistic explorative approach allowed the delineation of clinically relevant cohorts by treatment-triggered immune changes, potentially enabling better patient stratification and further revealed new mechanistic insights into the pathogenesis of s-irae.
PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. [SEP] podoplanin-rich stromal networks induce dendritic cell motility via activation of the c-type lectin receptor clec-2. to initiate adaptive immunity, dendritic cells (dcs) move from parenchymal tissues to lymphoid organs by migrating along stromal scaffolds that display the glycoprotein podoplanin (pdpn). pdpn is expressed by lymphatic endothelial and fibroblastic reticular cells and promotes blood-lymph separation during development by activating the c-type lectin receptor, clec-2, on platelets. here, we describe a role for clec-2 in the morphodynamic behavior and motility of dcs. clec-2 deficiency in dcs impaired their entry into lymphatics and trafficking to and within lymph nodes, thereby reducing t cell priming. clec-2 engagement of pdpn was necessary for dcs to spread and migrate along stromal surfaces and sufficient to induce membrane protrusions. clec-2 activation triggered cell spreading via downregulation of rhoa activity and myosin light-chain phosphorylation and triggered f-actin-rich protrusions via vav signaling and rac1 activation. thus, activation of clec-2 by pdpn rearranges the actin cytoskeleton in dcs to promote efficient motility along stromal surfaces.
PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] 
Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. [SEP] home-based physical exercice with additional cognitive training for improving mobility in older adults: a secondary analysis of the covepic randomized controlled trial. by improving cognitive processes involved in motor control, cognitive training may help enhance the effectiveness of home-based physical exercise in preventing age-related decline in mobility. this study compares the effects of a six-month home-based physical exercise, with or without cognitive training, on gait speed and balance. 127 community-dwelling adults aged 50-87 years (mean 65.20 ± 7.93; 76% women) were randomly assigned to (1) home-based, remotely monitored physical exercise alone (n = 64; 72% women) or (2) combined with cognitive training (n = 63; 81% women) for six months. in contrast, the combined group showing greater improvements than the physical exercise alone group in fast gait speed (+ 0.07 m/s; f(1,199) = 6.24, p = 0.013, η adding cognitive training to home-based physical exercise may improve fast gait speed and balance in adults aged 50 and above. 161 older adults (68.23 ± 4.47 years, 66% female) who were healthy but previously sporting inactive (no regular weekly sports participation) completed a 24-week exercise program with two weekly 90-minute sessions combining multicomponent fitness training and introductory classes to recreational sports (e.g., karate, table tennis, handball, archery). this study aimed to determine the effect of a six-month physical activity (pa) promotion program on cmrfs and cognitive function in office workers. obesity measurements, lipid profiles test, and cognitive function tests were assessed at baseline, four and six months. this study aims to explore whether multi-domain interventions of baduanjin exercise, the mediterranean-dash intervention for neurodegenerative delay (mind) diet, and relaxation training can improve cognitive function in older adults. at the 9-month follow-up, the bmr and bm interventions showed significant effects on executive function (mean difference in change of composite for bmr vs. control: 0.26 points [95% ci, 0.11, 0.41],  a multi-domain comprehensive intervention combining baduanjin exercise, mind diet and relaxation training, can significantly improve both executive function and global cognitive function after 9 months in older adults with cognitive impairment.
Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. [SEP] 
Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. [SEP] 
Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. [SEP] extracellular vesicles derived from endothelial progenitor cells protect human glomerular endothelial cells and podocytes from complement- and cytokine-mediated injury. glomerular endothelial cells (gec) and podocytes are part of the gfb and contribute to the maintenance of its structural and functional integrity through the release of paracrine mediators. evs were internalized in both gecs and podocytes mainly through a l-selectin-based mechanism. on podocytes, evs inhibited apoptosis and prevented nephrin shedding induced by cks and c5a. in a co-culture model of gecs/podocytes that mimicked gfb, epc-derived evs protected cell function and permeselectivity from inflammatory-mediated damage. dynamic changes of podocytes caused by fibroblast growth factor 2 in culture. fibroblast growth factor 2 (fgf2) augments podocyte injury, which induces glomerulosclerosis, although the mechanisms remain obscure. in this study, we investigated the effects of fgf2 on cultured podocytes with interdigitating cell processes in rats. an in vitro scratch assay revealed that fgf2 enhanced migration of podocytes. these findings show that fgf2 makes podocytes to transition from the quiescent state into the cell cycle and change their morphology due to enhanced motility, and that the culture system in this study is useful for analyzing the pathological changes of podocytes in vivo.
Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. [SEP] 
Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. [SEP] 
Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. [SEP] risk of high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia during follow-up in hpv-positive women according to baseline p16-ink4a results: a prospective analysis of a nested substudy of the ntcc randomised controlled trial. immunostaining for p16-ink4a (henceforth p16) is a sensitive and specific method for detection of high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) in women infected with human papillomavirus (hpv), but longitudinal data have not been obtained. women aged 25-60 years were enrolled between june 10, 2003, and dec 31, 2004, in a multicentre randomised trial comparing hpv testing with cytology. the primary endpoint was histologically confirmed cin of grade 2 or worse (cin of grade 2 [cin2], cin of grade 3 [cin3], or invasive cervical cancer) at recruitment or during follow-up. additionally, we assessed the relative sensitivity of an alternative strategy (referral to colposcopy and follow-up of only hpv-positive, p16-positive women) versus conventional cytology in two age groups. of 1042 hpv-positive women who were tested for p16 with no cin detected during the first round of screening, 944 (91%) had further hpv tests. the relative sensitivity of the alternative strategy compared with conventional cytology was 2·08 (1·13-3·56) in women aged 35-60 years and 2·86 (1·28-5·36) in those aged 25-34 years. hpv-positive, p16-negative women aged 35-60 years had a higher cumulative risk of cin3 or worse during recruitment or follow-up (2·0%, 95% ci 0·3-3·7) than did hpv-negative women (0·01%, 0-0·04) or those who were cytologically normal (0·04%, 0·02-0·09) at recruitment. hpv-positive, p16-positive women need immediate colposcopy and, if the assessment is negative, annual follow-up. immediate colposcopy can be avoided in hpv-positive, p16-negative women, who can be safely managed with repeat screening after 2-3 year intervals.
Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. [SEP] 
Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. [SEP] 
Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. [SEP] 
Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. [SEP] recombinant human thyrotropin (rhtsh)-aided radioiodine treatment for non-toxic multinodular goitre. treatments for non-toxic multinodular goitre include surgery, levothyroxine suppressive therapy, and radioiodine. to assess the effects of recombinant human thyrotropin-aided radioiodine treatment for non-toxic multinodular goitre. rhtsh-aided radioiodine treatment for non-toxic multinodular goitre, compared to radioiodine alone, probably increased the risk of hypothyroidism but probably led to a greater reduction in thyroid volume. in multinodular goitre (mng), low radioiodine (rai) activity after recombinant human (rh) tsh is able to reduce thyroid volume (tv) and improve symptoms. radioiodine - an attractive alternative to surgery in large non-toxic multinodular goitres. radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre: effects of combination with lithium. radioiodine treatment of multinodular non-toxic goitre. to investigate the long term effect of radioactive iodine on thyroid function and size in patients with non-toxic multinodular goitre. a substantial reduction in thyroid volume accompanied by a low incidence of hypothyroidism and few side effects makes the use of radioactive iodine an attractive alternative to surgery in selected cases of non-toxic multinodular goitre.
Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems [SEP] 
Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. [SEP] 
Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. [SEP] 
Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. [SEP] 
Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. [SEP] 
Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. [SEP] 
Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. [SEP] 
S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. [SEP] 
Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. [SEP] an open trial of oral sildenafilin antidepressant-induced sexual dysfunction. sildenafil is a selective inhibitor of cyclic gmp-specific phosphodiesterase type 5 that has been associated with greater improvement of erectile function compared to placebo among men with erectile dysfunction. the goal of our study was to evaluate its efficacy in a small sample of outpatients with antidepressant-induced sexual dysfunction. we studied the first 14 depressed outpatients (9 men and 5 women; mean age: 46.4 +/- 8.4) who were consecutively treated with oral sildenafil. all patients were prescribed oral sildenafil tablets at the initial dose of 50 mg q.d. we administered a sexual functioning questionnaire derived from the guided interview questionnaire for females and males and from the arizona sexual experience scale to all patients before and after at least 4 weeks of treatment with oral sildenafil. the mean sildenafil dose in our 14 patients was 57 +/- 18 mg/day. we observed statistically significant improvements in all domains of sexual functioning, including libido, arousal, orgasm, sexual satisfaction, and (in males only) erectile function, with a 69% rate of patients reporting themselves as much or very much improved. oral sildenafil treatment appeared to be very well tolerated, with only 1 out of 14 (7%) patients reporting an adverse event (hot flashes). our findings of statistically significant improvements in all domains of sexual functioning in a sample of 14 men and women with antidepressant-induced sexual dysfunction suggest that this agent may represent an efficacious approach to this population.
Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. [SEP] role of tmprss4 modulation in breast cancer cell proliferation. background: tmprss4 is a novel type ii transmembrane serine protease found at the surface of the cells and is involved in the development and cancer progression. however, tmprss4 functions in breast cancer remain poor understand. the present study investigated the function of tmprss4 in the breast cancer cells and the potential mechanistic action underling. materials and methods: the lentiviral vectors causing tmprss4 down-regulation and over-expression were established and transfected in mda-mb-468 and mcf-7 cells, respectively. by using the cck- 8 assay, cell proliferation was analyzed. moreover, western blot was used to detect the expression of certain proteins related to cell apoptosis (bax and bcl2) signaling pathway and telomere maintenance (pot1, tpp1, and ube2d3). cell cycle and cell apoptosis were also analyzed by using the flow cytometry analysis. moreover, tmprss4 silencing in breast cancer reduces cells proliferation by promoting cell cycle arrest in g2/m phase, cell apoptosis, and telomere maintenance impairment while the tmprss4 overexpression increases cells proliferation through cell apoptosis reduction and telomere maintenance reinforcement associated with insignificant change in cell cycle progression. conclusion: tmprss4 plays important roles in cancer progression and may be considered as a good therapeutic target for cancer gene therapy especially breast cancer.
Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. [SEP] 
Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. [SEP] prognosis of patients with ischemic stroke with prior anticoagulant therapy: direct oral anticoagulants versus warfarin. in previous studies, the stroke risk while taking warfarin was 2 per 100 patient-years and 1.5% per year while taking doacs. we hypothesized that even if ischemic stroke occurred during anticoagulation therapy with doacs, the prognosis was likely to be better than that with warfarin. data from 2002 to 2019, sourced from a nationwide claims database, were used to identify atrial fibrillation patients using  our study confirmed that doacs have a better prognosis than warfarin after ischemic stroke. half-dose direct oral anticoagulation versus warfarin for atrial fibrillation following cardiac surgery. among patients with as, doacs were associated with a lower risk of ischemic stroke when compared with warfarin, while bleeding and mortality did not differ between doacs and warfarin. doacs may be more effective in preventing ischemic stroke than warfarin in patients with af and as. efficacy and safety of direct oral anticoagulants (doacs) versus warfarin in atrial fibrillation patients with prior stroke: a systematic review and meta-analysis. the purpose of this meta-analysis was to compare efficacy and safety of direct oral anticoagulants (doacs) to warfarin for secondary stroke prevention among adult patients with atrial fibrillation and prior stroke. doacs were associated with better efficacy and safety profiles than warfarin in atrial fibrillation patients with prior stroke, more specifically a lower risk of systemic embolism, all-cause mortality, and ich.
Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. [SEP] 
Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease [SEP] food insecurity, dietary quality, and cardiovascular risk among early childhood cancer survivors. in this study, we aimed to quantify the prevalence of food and nutrition insecurity-known cardiovascular risk factors-among a single-center cohort of early ccs, and explore these factors as drivers of adverse ccs dietary and cardiovascular outcomes. we descriptively summarized food insecurity prevalence, dietary quality, and cardiovascular risk and examined associations using univariate and multivariable logistic and linear regression analyses. participants in food-insecure households experienced significantly lower dietary quality compared to food-secure households on univariate analysis (25.9 vs 28.2, p = 0.04); in multivariable analyses, this difference was not significant. interventions targeting food and nutrition insecurity and other modifiable cardiovascular risk factors have potential to mitigate late effects and advance equity in survivorship outcomes. despite methodological differences, evidence consistently indicated suboptimal intakes or deficiency. available data suggested associations between adequate intake or status and better bone health, metabolism, cognition, and quality of life. high-quality screening for malnutrition is a critical entry point for children with acute malnutrition to access lifesaving nutritional care, treatment, and support. however, the contacts with community health workers are suboptimal, and evidence of the quality of screening for acute malnutrition at the community level is limited. with only 4 of 10 children visited by community health workers receiving optimal nutritional screening, many children miss the health benefits from routine nutritional screening because of inadequate screening or none at all.
Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. [SEP] the activity-dependent release of brain-derived neurotrophic factor at synapses binds to pre- or postsynaptic trkb resulting in the strengthening of synapses, reflected by long-term potentiation. in this review, we discuss trkb-postsynaptic density protein-95 coupling as a promising strategy to magnify brain-derived neurotrophic factor signaling towards the development of novel therapeutics for specific neurological disorders. treatment with brain-derived neurotrophic factor is problematic, due to poor pharmacokinetics, low brain penetration, and side effects resulting from activation of the p75 neurotrophin receptor or the truncated trkb.t1 isoform. activity-dependent bdnf release via endocytic pathways is regulated by synaptotagmin-6 and complexin. brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) is known to modulate synapse development and plasticity, but the source of synaptic bdnf and molecular mechanisms regulating bdnf release remain unclear. using exogenous bdnf tagged with quantum dots (bdnf-qds), we found that endocytosed bdnf-qds were preferentially localized to postsynaptic sites in the dendrite of cultured hippocampal neurons. repetitive neuronal spiking induced the release of bdnf-qds at these sites, and this process required activation of glutamate receptors. thus, neuronal activity could trigger the release of endosomal bdnf from postsynaptic dendrites in a cpx- and syt6-dependent manner, and endosomes containing bdnf may serve as a source of bdnf for activity-dependent synaptic modulation. although previous studies have established a role for mtorc1 as necessary for enduring changes in postsynaptic function, here we demonstrate that dendritic mtorc1 activation in rat hippocampal neurons also drives a retrograde signaling mechanism promoting enhanced neurotransmitter release from apposed presynaptic terminals. this novel mode of synaptic regulation conferred by dendritic mtorc1 is locally implemented, requires downstream synthesis of brain-derived neurotrophic factor as a retrograde messenger, and is engaged in an activity-dependent fashion to support homeostatic trans-synaptic control of presynaptic function.
T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. [SEP] 
TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. [SEP] importantly, however, both atypical pkczeta and pkciota were functionally required in tcr/cd28-mediated activation of nf-kappab downstream of pkctheta in jurkat t cells albeit, activation responses of pkczeta-deficient cd3+ t cells were comparable with wildtype controls. this normal activation thresholds of pkczeta-/- t cells suggested that pkciota, the closest structural relative, might play a compensatory role in tcr/cd28-induced signalling. consistently, both pkczeta and pkciota resided in the plasma membrane lipid raft microdomains of jurkat as well as primary mouse cd3+ t cells. thus, pkctheta, the established constituent of the immunological synapse, physically and functionally interacted with pkczeta and pkciota. tcr engagement induces proline-rich tyrosine kinase-2 (pyk2) translocation to the t cell-apc interface independently of pyk2 activity and in an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif-mediated fashion. the relocation of kinases in t lymphocytes during their cognate interaction with apcs is essential for lymphocyte activation. we found that the proline-rich tyrosine kinase-2 (pyk2) is rapidly translocated to the t cell-apc contact area upon t cell-specific recognition of superantigen-pulsed apcs. stimulation with anti-cd3-coated latex microspheres was sufficient for pyk2 reorientation, and the coengagement of cd28 boosted pyk2 redistribution. second, a kinase-dead pyk2 mutant was equally translocated upon tcr triggering. all these data suggest that, by translocating to the vicinity of the immune synapse, pyk2 could play an essential role in t cell activation and polarized secretion of cytokines.
TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. [SEP] mir-21, mir-34a, mir-125b, mir-181d and mir-648 levels inversely correlate with mgmt and tp53 expression in primary glioblastoma patients. targeting a20 decreases glioma stem cell survival and tumor growth. glioblastomas are deadly cancers that display a functional cellular hierarchy maintained by self-renewing glioblastoma stem cells (gscs). we determined that a20 (tnfaip3), a regulator of cell survival and the nf-kappab pathway, is overexpressed in gscs relative to non-stem glioblastoma cells at both the mrna and protein levels. inhibiting a20 expression decreased gsc growth and survival through mechanisms associated with decreased cell-cycle progression and decreased phosphorylation of p65/rela. elevated levels of a20 in gscs contributed to apoptotic resistance: gscs were less susceptible to tnfalpha-induced cell death than matched non-stem glioma cells, but a20 knockdown sensitized gscs to tnfalpha-mediated apoptosis. the tumorigenic potential of gscs was decreased with a20 targeting, resulting in increased survival of mice bearing human glioma xenografts. in silico analysis of a glioma patient genomic database indicates that a20 overexpression and amplification is inversely correlated with survival. together these data indicate that a20 contributes to glioma maintenance through effects on the glioma stem cell subpopulation. although inactivating mutations in a20 in lymphoma suggest a20 can act as a tumor suppressor, similar point mutations have not been identified through glioma genomic sequencing: in fact, our data suggest a20 may function as a tumor enhancer in glioma through promotion of gsc survival.
Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. [SEP] 
Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. [SEP] sugar intake, obesity, and diabetes in india. sugar and sweet consumption have been popular and intrinsic to indian culture, traditions, and religion from ancient times. in this article, we review the data showing increasing sugar consumption in india, including traditional sources (jaggery and khandsari) and from sugar-sweetened beverages (ssbs). along with decreasing physical activity, this increasing trend of per capita sugar consumption assumes significance in view of the high tendency for indians to develop insulin resistance, abdominal adiposity, and hepatic steatosis, and the increasing "epidemic" of type 2 diabetes (t2dm) and cardiovascular diseases. averting obesity and type 2 diabetes in india through sugar-sweetened beverage taxation: an economic-epidemiologic modeling study. taxing sugar-sweetened beverages (ssbs) has been proposed in high-income countries to reduce obesity and type 2 diabetes. we sought to estimate the potential health effects of such a fiscal strategy in the middle-income country of india, where there is heterogeneity in ssb consumption, patterns of substitution between ssbs and other beverages after tax increases, and vast differences in chronic disease risk within the population. the 20% ssb tax was anticipated to reduce overweight and obesity prevalence by 3.0% (95% ci 1.6%-5.9%) and type 2 diabetes incidence by 1.6% (95% ci 1.2%-1.9%) among various indian subpopulations over the period 2014-2023, if ssb consumption continued to increase linearly in accordance with secular trends. however, acceleration in ssb consumption trends consistent with industry marketing models would be expected to increase the impact efficacy of taxation, averting 4.2% of prevalent overweight/obesity (95% ci 2.5-10.0%) and 2.5% (95% ci 1.0-2.8%) of incident type 2 diabetes from 2014-2023. sustained ssb taxation at a high tax rate could mitigate rising obesity and type 2 diabetes in india among both urban and rural subpopulations.
Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. [SEP] while nurses demonstrated good knowledge of accurate blood pressure measurement (82.4%), their knowledge of hypertension diagnosis (35.1%) and management (48.8%) was poor. the following were significantly associated with overall knowledge of hypertension care: hospital of practice ( this study revealed significant gaps in nurses' knowledge of hypertension care and highlighted the need for continuous professional development to bridge knowledge gaps and sustain clinical competence. coding accuracy was higher in urban teaching hospitals compared to nonteaching or rural hospitals. tranexamic acid was not significantly associated with reduction in hospital mortality (or = 1.06; 95% ci, 0.32-3.45) but was associated with significantly shorter hospital stays (mean difference [md] = -1.49; 95% ci, -2.43 to -0.56). private hospital, university-led health sciences teaching and training: a proposal for the university of limpopo's faculty of health sciences specialist lecturer shortage. medical doctor training has largely retained the historical context of biased resource allocation. the private sector (hospitals and staff) potentially has the resources and human capital to aid in addressing the skills shortage that exists in the province and the university. this review aims to assess the available literature and evidence that supports the role that private doctors and hospitals can play in undergraduate and postgraduate medical teaching and training. the medical teaching and training landscape is changing with demands for innovative solutions. the study was conducted at 3 community teaching hospitals in the northeast united states.
Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia [SEP] 
The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. [SEP] 
The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. [SEP] similar to mammals, several viral-sensing pattern recognition receptors (prr) have been identified in birds including toll-like receptors (tlr) and retinoic acid-inducible gene i (rig-i)-like receptors (rlr). avian tlr3 and tlr7 are involved in rna virus recognition, especially highly pathogenic avian influenza virus (hpaiv), while tlr15 and tlr21 are potential sensors that recognize both rna viruses and bacteria. in this review, recent advances in the field of viral recognition by different types of prr in birds are summarized. master sensors of pathogenic rna - rig-i like receptors. the innate immune response to viruses is mostly based on prrs that detect the unusual structure, modification or location of viral nucleic acids. as viral rna is located in the same compartment as host rna, prrs in the cytosol have to discriminate between viral and endogenous rna by virtue of their structure or modification. prr mrna expressions were analyzed by real-time rt-pcr. cytosolic recognition of viral infection by specific prrs takes advantage of the dependence of viruses on the cytosolic component of their replication programs. the rig-i-like receptors, rig-i and mda5, have been defined as essential prrs for host detection of a variety of rna viruses. novel prrs and their signaling pathways involved in detecting dna viruses through nonself-recognition of viral dna are also being elucidated.
The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. [SEP] 
The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. [SEP] 
The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. [SEP] 
The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. [SEP] 
The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. [SEP] although the clinical presentation of mplcs and ipms often appears similar, they represent biologically distinct evolutionary processes. differential incidences of ezh2, hist1h1e, and myc aberrations (p < 0.05) confirmed the distinct oncogenic evolution between bone-dlbcl and nodal-dlbcl-gcb. we sought to elucidate molecular features differentiating primary tumors (pt) from pms and actionable targets facilitating transcoelomic dissemination and progression. whole-exome and bulk rna sequencing analyses were conducted to identify underlying genomic aberrations and transcriptomic differences between primary and peritoneal lesions. whole-exome sequencing found that genomic alterations and clonality patterns between pts and pms remain broadly similar. at 12-16 months, 50% of msh2ko mice exhibited either ah or ecs with histologic similarities to human ls-ecs. whilst egcts share morphological and immunohistochemical features with their gonadal counterparts, they tend to be more aggressive and are frequently associated with secondary somatic malignancies. the aim of our study was to evaluate the clinical, morphological and immunohistochemical features, and to analyze tumors for chromosomal abnormalities of 12p, in addition to any novel genetic alterations, in a series of egcts. our study demonstrates that egcts share similar histologic features, but diverse clinical outcomes compared to their gonadal counterparts. our data corroborate that somatic-type malignancies are frequently encountered in mediastinal egcts and that their presence portends a poorer prognosis.
The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. [SEP] identification of susceptibility loci for colorectal cancer in a genome-wide meta-analysis. to identify common variants influencing colorectal cancer (crc) risk, we performed a meta-analysis of five genome-wide association studies, comprising 5626 cases and 7817 controls of european descent. we conducted replication of top ranked single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) in additional series totalling 14 037 cases and 15 937 controls, identifying a new crc risk locus at 10q24.2 [rs1035209; odds ratio (or) = 1.13, p = 4.54 × 10(-11)]. we also performed meta-analysis of our studies, with previously published data, of several recently purported crc risk loci. we failed to find convincing evidence for a previously reported genome-wide association at rs11903757 (2q32.3). of the three additional loci for which evidence of an association in europeans has been previously described we failed to show an association between rs59336 (12q24.21) and crc risk. however, for the other two snps, our analyses demonstrated new, formally significant associations with crc. these are rs3217810 intronic in ccnd2 (12p13.32; or = 1.19, p = 2.16 × 10(-10)) and rs10911251 near lamc1 (1q25.3; or = 1.09, p = 1.75 × 10(-8)). additionally, we found some evidence to support a relationship between, rs647161, rs2423297 and rs10774214 and crc risk originally identified in east asians in our european datasets. our findings provide further insights into the genetic and biological basis of inherited genetic susceptibility to crc.
The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. [SEP] 
The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. [SEP] myocardium and endocardium of the early mammalian heart tube arise from independent multipotent lineages specified at the primitive streak. the formation of the primitive heart tube from cardiomyocytes and endocardial cells is a key event in mammalian development. previous studies suggested that cardiomyocytes and endocardial cells segregate from a shared cardiac progenitor around the onset of gastrulation, yet their lineage relationship with other mesodermal tissues remains unclear. using retrospective and prospective clonal analyses in mouse embryos, we traced cardiomyocyte and endocardial progenitors from the primitive streak to the heart tube. the proposed model for cardiac progenitor specification will help understanding the origins of congenital heart diseases and designing tissue engineering strategies. hand1 knockout biased cardiac mesoderm toward second heart field progenitors at the expense of first heart field progenitors, leading to increased expression of atrial and outflow tract cardiomyocyte markers, which was further confirmed by the appearance of atrial-like action potentials. these studies reveal that first heart field cells originate in a juxtacardiac field adjacent to extraembryonic mesoderm and contribute to the ventrolateral side of the cardiac primordium. refining our knowledge of the origin and developmental trajectories of cells that build the heart is essential to address outstanding challenges in cardiac biology and disease. here, we summarize key insights gained through zebrafish studies into the early patterning of uncommitted lateral plate mesoderm into cardiac progenitors and their regulation. in vertebrates, multipotent progenitors located in the pharyngeal mesoderm form cardiomyocytes and branchiomeric head muscles, but the dynamic gene expression programmes and mechanisms underlying cardiopharyngeal multipotency and heart versus head muscle fate choices remain elusive.
The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. [SEP] 
The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. [SEP] 
The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. [SEP] 
The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. [SEP] 
The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. [SEP] 
The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. [SEP] microtubule-sliding activity of a kinesin-8 promotes spindle assembly and spindle-length control. molecular motors play critical roles in the formation of mitotic spindles, either through controlling the stability of individual microtubules, or by crosslinking and sliding microtubule arrays. kinesin-8 motors are best known for their regulatory roles in controlling microtubule dynamics. they contain microtubule-destabilizing activities, and restrict spindle length in a wide variety of cell types and organisms. here, we report an antiparallel microtubule-sliding activity of the budding yeast kinesin-8, kip3. the in vivo importance of this sliding activity was established through the identification of complementary kip3 mutants that separate the sliding activity and microtubule-destabilizing activity. in conjunction with cin8, a kinesin-5 family member, the sliding activity of kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly and the maintenance of genome stability. we propose a slide-disassemble model where the sliding and destabilizing activity of kip3 balance during pre-anaphase. this facilitates normal spindle assembly. however, the destabilizing activity of kip3 dominates in late anaphase, inhibiting spindle elongation and ultimately promoting spindle disassembly.
The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. [SEP] 
There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. [SEP] 
Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. [SEP] thigh-length gcs is sufficient to compress lower extremity veins in patients awaiting tha in supine position with the greatest compression in gv, while it was unable to significantly increase blood velocity of common femoral vein or gsv. effect of graduated compression stockings on venous blood velocity in supine resting hospitalized patients. the effects of graduated compression stockings (gcss) on venous blood velocity were measured in 26 hospitalized medical patients while supine at rest. in conclusion, thigh-length gcs in hospitalized patients had little or no effect on popliteal or femoral vein blood velocity while supine at rest, irrespective of whether the patients had venous insufficiency. knee length versus thigh length graduated compression stockings for prevention of deep vein thrombosis in postoperative surgical patients. graduated compression stockings (gcs) are a valuable means of thromboprophylaxis in hospitalised postoperative surgical patients. can clinical features distinguish between immobile patients with stroke at high and low risk of deep vein thrombosis? the clots in legs or stockings after stroke (clots) trial 1 randomised 2518 immobile patients with acute stroke to thigh-length graduated compression stockings (gcs) or no gcs and clots trial 2 randomised 3114 to thigh-length or below-knee gcs. thigh-length gcs did not increase popliteal vein blood velocity, diameter, or volumetric blood flow while supine or sitting, with or without ankle exercise. recent uk national guidelines recommend thromboprophylaxis, which includes the use of graduated compression stockings (gcs), for high-risk women to reduce the risk of vte in both the antenatal and postpartum period.
Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. [SEP] ck-2127107 amplifies skeletal muscle response to nerve activation in humans. three studies evaluated safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of ck-2127107 (ck-107), a next-generation fast skeletal muscle troponin activator (fsta), in healthy participants. we tested the hypothesis that ck-107 would amplify the force-frequency response of muscle in humans. to assess the force-frequency response, participants received single doses of ck-107 and placebo in a randomized, double-blind, 4-period, crossover study. the force-frequency response of foot dorsiflexion following stimulation of the deep fibular nerve to activate the tibialis anterior muscle was assessed. ck-107 significantly increased tibialis anterior muscle response with increasing dose and plasma concentration in a frequency-dependent manner; the largest increase in peak force was ∼60% at 10 hz. ck-107 appears more potent and produced larger increases in force than tirasemtiv-a first-generation fsta-in a similar pharmacodynamic study, thereby supporting its development for improvement of muscle function of patients. muscle nerve 57: 729-734, 2018.
Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. [SEP] long-term effects of xenotransplantation of human enteric glia in an immunocompetent rat model of acute brain injury. notably, mature neurons derived from human eg are found and appear enveloped by oligodendrocytes, form synaptic connections with the host tissue, and are differentiated. these models are established by transplanting human tissue- or human pluripotent stem cell (hpsc)-derived macroglial, microglial, or neuronal lineage cells, as well as cerebral organoids, into the brains of host animals. additionally, we explore the potential applications of these models for studying human glial cell-replacement therapies, studying in vivo human glial-to-neuron reprogramming, and harnessing single-cell omics and advanced functional assays to uncover detailed insights into human neurobiology. glia in tissue engineering: from biomaterial tools to transplantation. glia have been candidates for therapeutic use in many successful grafting studies, which have been largely focused on restoring myelin with schwann cells, olfactory ensheathing glia, and oligodendrocytes with support from astrocytes. furthermore, advances in stem cell-derived cortical/cerebral organoid differentiation protocols have allowed for the generation of patient-derived glia comparable to those acquired from tissues requiring highly invasive procedures or are otherwise inaccessible. this article explores the therapeutic potential of glia in transplantation with an emphasis on novel bioengineered tools for enhancement of their reparative properties. most glial grafts have employed schwann cells for remyelination, but other glial with novel biomaterials have been employed, emphasizing their diverse functionality. herein, a comprehensive review of biomaterial tools for glia in transplantation is presented, highlighting schwann cells, astrocytes, olfactory ensheating glia, oligodendrocytes, microglia, and ependymal cells.
Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. [SEP] 
UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. [SEP] 
UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. [SEP] 
Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. [SEP] 
Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. [SEP] 
Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. [SEP] 
Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. [SEP] compared with bupropion, aap augmentation was associated with a higher risk of the composite outcome (hr = 1.69; 95% ci:1.43-1.99), hospitalization (hr = 1.86; 95% ci: 1.52-2.26), ed visits (hr = 1.50; 95% ci: 1.15-2.90), and suicide-related outcomes (hr = 1.88; 95% ci: 1.07-3.33). bupropion, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (ssris), and opioid receptor antagonists were most frequently studied and showed preliminary promise in reducing symptom severity. some medications, including bupropion, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (ssris), and opioid receptor antagonists, have shown early promise in reducing symptoms of online behavioral addictions. one-year comparative effectiveness of bupropion and nicotine replacement therapy in smoking cessation: a prospective observational cohort study in turkey. based on randomized clinical trials, bupropion and nicotine replacement therapy (nrt) are recommended as equally effective first-line pharmacotherapies for smoking cessation. this study aimed to evaluate 12 months smoking cessation success rates among adult smokers attending a community health center-affiliated smoking cessation clinic in giresun, turkey, comparing bupropion with nicotine replacement therapy (nrt) in a real-world clinical setting. all participants received physician-led counseling and were prescribed either bupropion (n=45) or nrt (n=190; nrt 15 mg, n=118, and nrt 25 mg, n=72). the independent predictors of sustained abstinence at 52 weeks were high adherence to treatment, regular attendance at scheduled follow-up visits, counseling along with bupropion or high-dose nrt (25 mg), and fewer adverse effects during treatment. in real-world clinical practice, bupropion or high-dose nrt (25 mg), combined with structured counseling yielded high long-term abstinence rates and acceptable side effect profiles. to evaluate the treatment effect of pharmacological interventions tested in rcts for stimulant use disorder, comparing reduced use to total abstinence.
Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. [SEP] vitamin d deficiency during pregnancy can have severe effects on both the mother and the newborn child. the main aim of this study was to assess the impact of maternal vitamin d levels on the birth weight of the newborn by analysing the vitamin d levels in pregnant women at full term and their newborn. vitamin d deficiency is a highly prevalent obstetrical concern associated with an increased risk of complications like pre-eclampsia, gestational diabetes, and growth retardation. vitamin d status in pregnancy is also linked to long-term offspring health, e.g., the risk of obesity, metabolic disease, and neurodevelopmental problems. despite the suspected role of vitamin d in placental diseases and fetal development, there is limited knowledge on the effect of vitamin d on placental function. association between vitamin d level in mother's serum and the level of vitamin d in the serum of pre-term infants. the present study was conducted with the aim of association between the level of vitamin d in the mother's serum and the level of vitamin d in the serum of preterm infants. the results showed a high rate of vitamin d insufficiency and deficiency in mother (44, 49%) and preterm infants (49, 38%). effect of third trimester maternal vitamin d levels on placental weight to birth weight ratio in uncomplicated pregnancies. vitamin d has critical role for the fetal and placental development.
Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. [SEP] additionally, vitamin d deficiency was linked with adverse maternal and foetal outcomes such as hypertensive disorders in pregnancy, preterm birth and low birth weight. association between maternal vitamin d status with pregnancy outcomes and offspring growth in a population of wuxi, china. the role of maternal vitamin d in infantile growth remains unclear. when compared with vitamin d sufficiency, maternal vitamin d deficiency was not associated with preterm birth [odds ratio (or)=2.69, 95% confidence interval (95% ci)=0.57-12.80], small for gestation age (or=0.99, 95% ci=0.29-3.46), and low birth weight (or=1.69, 95% ci=0.34-8.51). similarly, no significant relationships were found between maternal vitamin d concentrations and anthropometric indices (such as weight, length, bmi) during 0 to 3 years old. maternal vitamin d levels were higher in the former group than the latter (p=0.037); however, maternal vitamin d status appeared to be unrelated with offspring bmi-z trajectories in multivariable logistic regression models. maternal vitamin d deficiency may not be related to adverse pregnancy outcomes as well as offspring growth. vitamin d insufficiency is common in indian mothers but is not associated with gestational diabetes or variation in newborn size. we have related maternal vitamin d status in pregnancy to maternal and newborn glucose and insulin concentrations, and newborn size, in a south indian population. maternal 25(oh)d concentrations were unrelated to newborn anthropometry or cord plasma variables.
Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. [SEP] oral contraceptives and breast cancer. an attempt is made to summarize the results of recently conducted epidemiological studies relating to the possible adverse effects of oral contraceptives (ocs) on breast cancer. these include the following: there is usually a considerable latent period between 1st exposure to a carcinogen and the development of overt malignancy; and it is possible that exposure to contraceptive steroids may be particularly important at certain critical periods during reproductive life. after age, the most important risk factors during early life are a young age at menarche and a late age at 1st full term birth. there factors appear to operate independently and so the longer the period between menarche and 1st full term birth, the higher is the risk of breast cancer. a girl whose menarche occurs before age 12 is approximately twice as likely to develop breast cancer later in life as a girl whose menarche occurs after age 14. similarly, a woman whose first full term birth occurs after age 35 is about 3 times more likely to develop breast cancer than a woman who gives birth before age 20. other known risk factors include a family history of breast cancer, a past history of benign breast disease, and increased body weight. women who have never used ocs seem to present with more clinically advanced tumors than women who have used them. the difference may be due to a greater awareness of breast disease in oc users, but it could represent a beneficial biological effect of ocs.
aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. [SEP] glutamine deprivation enhances doxorubicin sensitivity in osteosarcoma by downregulating glud1 and promoting ros-mediated inhibition of wnt/β-catenin signaling. the effects of glutamine metabolism on osteosarcoma chemosensitivity were systematically evaluated using both in vitro and in vivo models. in conclusion, glutamine deprivation enhances doxorubicin sensitivity in osteosarcoma. it also increased α-ketoglutarate (α-kg) levels, adenosine triphosphate synthesis, and oxygen consumption. notably, glud1-knockdown suppressed these metabolic pathways and significantly inhibited tumor growth both in vitro and in vivo. in this study, we report that cd90 affects glutamine metabolism in gc cells through slc1a5, ultimately promoting gc progression. this, in turn, affects slc1a5-mediated glutamine metabolism and ferroptosis in gc cells, ultimately facilitating gc progression. this study investigates how glutamine metabolism affects cd276 protein stability and esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (escc) progression. slbp promotes lung adenocarcinoma progression by inhibiting ferroptosis and reprogramming glutamine metabolism via fads2 interaction. our previous work identified aberrant glutamine metabolism and asct2 overexpression in cervical cancer, providing a rationale for designing glutamine-asct2 interaction-based delivery systems.
cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. [SEP] 
mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. [SEP] 
