--- PAGE 1 ---
Proceedings of the 18th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics
V olume 1: Long Papers, pages 2103–2114
March 17-22, 2024 c⃝2024 Association for Computational Linguistics
Comparing Knowledge Sources for Open-Domain
Scientific Claim Verification
Juraj Vladika and Florian Matthes
Department of Computer Science
Technical University of Munich
Garching, Germany
{juraj.vladika, matthes}@tum.de
Abstract
The increasing rate at which scientific knowl-
edge is discovered and health claims shared
online has highlighted the importance of devel-
oping efficient fact-checking systems for scien-
tific claims. The usual setting for this task in
the literature assumes that the documents con-
taining the evidence for claims are already pro-
vided and annotated or contained in a limited
corpus. This renders the systems unrealistic for
real-world settings where knowledge sources
with potentially millions of documents need to
be queried to find relevant evidence. In this pa-
per, we perform an array of experiments to test
the performance of open-domain claim verifi-
cation systems. We test the final verdict predic-
tion of systems on four datasets of biomedical
and health claims in different settings. While
keeping the pipeline’s evidence selection and
verdict prediction parts constant, document re-
trieval is performed over three common knowl-
edge sources (PubMed, Wikipedia, Google)
and using two different information retrieval
techniques. We show that PubMed works bet-
ter with specialized biomedical claims, while
Wikipedia is more suited for everyday health
concerns. Likewise, BM25 excels in retrieval
precision, while semantic search in recall of rel-
evant evidence. We discuss the results, outline
frequent retrieval patterns and challenges, and
provide promising future directions.
1 Introduction
The fast promulgation of knowledge in the digital
world has made keeping track of information trust-
worthiness a challenging endeavor. In particular,
science and health have become popular talking
points and brought with it an abundance of medi-
cal advice that permeate online resources (Swire-
Thompson et al., 2020). A report by the Pew Re-
search Center (Fox and Duggan, 2013) found that
over one-third of American adults have searched
the Internet for medical conditions and asked it
Figure 1: The experimental setup of the study: scientific
claims are passed through a fixed pipeline using three
different knowledge sources, resulting in different final
prediction performance (as measured by F1 score).
medical questions before going to a medical pro-
fessional. The sought information ranged from
self-diagnosis to finding medications.
Automated solutions for claim verification based
on Natural Language Processing (NLP) have
emerged as a potential aid to help with bringing
light into the information overload (Nakov et al.,
2021). While most work in the automated fact-
checking domain is concerned with claims related
to politics, society, rumors, and general misinfor-
mation, there has been an increasing interest in
fact-checking of scientific and biomedical claims
(Kotonya and Toni, 2020; Wright et al., 2022b).
2103

--- PAGE 2 ---
The task of automated claim verification consists of
retrieving evidence for a claim being checked and
then predicting a veracity label based on the discov-
ered evidence. The most common setting for this
task either already provides the source document
that will contain evidence for the claim or works
over a limited, manually constructed collection of
documents (Saakyan et al., 2021). While this is
an important step in developing models capable of
reading comprehension and detecting which spans
provide evidence in a given context, this is not a
realistic setting for automated claim verification
systems deployed in the real world. In such a sce-
nario, the documents containing evidence are not
known and knowledge bases containing them can
possibly contain millions of documents. Moreover,
with the rise of medical assistants and conversa-
tional agents in healthcare, many users are turning
to these systems as a source of health-related infor-
mation and medical support (Valizadeh and Parde,
2022).
To address these research gaps, we perform an
array of experiments that test the performance of
NLP systems for claim verification in the open do-
main. In the experiments, we keep the parts of
the verification pipeline concerned with evidence
sentence selection and verdict prediction fixed,
and vary the knowledge source being used and
information retrieval techniques being deployed to
query the databases. Since the final goal of fact-
verification systems is to provide a verdict on the
correctness of a claim, we measure the usefulness
of knowledge sources and retrieval techniques by
looking at verdict prediction scores. For this pur-
pose, we leverage four English datasets of biomedi-
cal and health claims that contain gold annotations
stemming from domain experts. We use the verac-
ity labels of claims in datasets as ground truth.
We opt for three large-scale knowledge sources:
PubMed, the cardinal collection of biomedical re-
search publications; Wikipedia, as the largest pub-
licly curated encyclopedia of human knowledge;
and Google search results (representing "the whole
web"), which is a straightforward and intuitive way
how users seek information. Finally, we perform a
qualitative analysis of retrieved evidence for some
interesting example claims, present the insights
from results, and provide future directions.
Our contributions are as follows:
1. We test the claim verdict prediction perfor-
mance of a fixed fact-verification system
on four biomedical fact-checking datasets
by using three different knowledge sources
(PubMed, Wikipedia, Google Search).
2. We compare the final label prediction perfor-
mance by retrieving evidence using different
techniques (sparse retrieval with BM25 and
semantic search with dense vectors).
3. We provide a qualitative error analysis of re-
trieved evidence for different types of claims
and provide insights and future directions for
open-domain claim verification.
We make the data and code of the experiments
available in a GitHub repository.1
2 Foundations
2.1 Pipeline for Automated Claim Verification
The systems for automated claim verification and
automated fact-checking are usually modeled as
a framework with three components, where each
component is a well-established NLP task (Zeng
et al., 2021). This framework is a three-component
pipeline (Figure 1) consisting of (1) document
retrieval; (2) evidence selection; (3) verdict pre-
diction. We are mostly concerned with how the
document retrieval part affects the further entail-
ment process. That is why we fix the evidence-
sentence selection model and the entailment predic-
tion model. This way, the quality of the data source
and the retrieval technique are the most important
variables being tested. Two of these subtasks, or
even all three (Zhang et al., 2021), can be learned
together in a joint system with a shared represen-
tation. For the sake of simplicity of testing, we
choose a pipeline system that performs each task
sequentially.
In docu

--- PAGE 4 ---
ticles.3 For PubMed, the US National Library of
Medicine provides MEDLINE, a snapshot of cur-
rently available abstracts in PubMed that is updated
once a year. We used the 2022 version found at
their website.4 While this yields 33.4M abstracts,
we pre-processed the data following González-
Márquez et al. (2023) and removed non-English
papers, papers with no abstracts, and papers with
unfinished abstracts, which yields 20.6M abstracts.
For Google results, we used Google’s publicly
available Custom Search JSON API.5
3.2 Document Retrieval Techniques
We test the performance of two different document
retrieval techniques, namely a sparse one and a
dense one. Since both types of approaches are
deployed in modern search systems, we want to
see how much of a difference they make in find-
ing appropriate documents that can verify a claim.
As a representative sparse technique, we opt for
BM25, an improvement over TF-IDF that takes
into account term frequency, document length, and
inverse document frequency. Despite its simplic-
ity, it has proven to be a cornerstone of informa-
tion retrieval approaches due to comparative per-
formance to more sophisticated neural approaches
(Kamphuis et al., 2020).
Recently, with the advance of large language
models, encoding both the claim and documents
with dense vector embeddings and then search-
ing most similar vectors with cosine similarity
has proven to be a powerful retrieval method
(Karpukhin et al., 2020). A particularly success-
ful recent approach is SimCSE (Gao et al., 2021),
which uses contrastive learning and entailment-
based training to enhance similarity scoring.
We chose a biomedical variation BioSimCSE
(Kanakarajan et al., 2022) which fits our use case.
For dense retrieval, we encode the entirety of
our PubMed corpus and Wikipedia corpus with
BioSimCSE and store the embeddings. For sparse
retrieval, we construct an inverted index out of
Wikipedia and PubMed corpora and later query it
using BM25 metrics. After selecting the top 10
documents in each method, the top 10 most similar
sentences were taken and jointly with claim the ver-
dict was predicted based on the entailment relation.
3https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/20230520/
4https://www.nlm.nih.gov/databases/download/
pubmed_medline.html
5https://developers.google.com/custom-search/
v1/overview
For Google Search, we took the top 10 returned
Google snippets as "evidence sentences" that we
then concatenate and use as the evidence block for
label prediction. All the experiments were run on a
single Nvidia V100 GPU card, in a single run. One
run on one dataset, one knowledge source, and one
retrieval technique costed one computation hour.
3.3 Baseline
To establish a baseline, we first run the system with
the gold evidence provided with each of the four
datasets. These are the sentences or snippets that
were given by the annotators or creators of the re-
spective datasets. The performance is shown in
Table 2. It should be noted that this performance
is different from those reported in papers introduc-
ing these datasets because we remove the claims
labeled with NEI and we also did not fine-tune the
model on the datasets. This is an intentional choice
because the idea is to test the systems in a zero-
shot / off-the-shelf setting. We expect the results in
our experiments to be lower than this because hav-
ing annotated evidence is an easier setting than the
open-domain claim verification where the evidence
needs to be discovered.
Gold Evidence
Dataset Precision Recall F1 Score
SCIFACT 77.9 88 .4 82.8
PUBMEDQA 74.4 80 .4 77.3
HEALTH FC 80.5 83 .4 81.9
COVERT 80.7 86 .4 83.4
Table 2: Results of final verdict prediction over four
datasets using the gold evidence sentences provided
with the datasets.
4 Results
Table 3 shows the performance of the claim veri-
fication system using evidence retrieved with two
different techniques from two different knowledge
sources, PubMed and Wikipedia. As expected, the
F1 scores are lower than the oracl

--- PAGE 5 ---
BM25 Semantic Search
Source Dataset Precision Recall F1 Macro Precision Recall F1 Macro
PUBMED
SCIFACT 79.9 72 .6 76 .1 73 .7 80 .0 76.8
PUBMEDQA 70.0 70 .6 70 .3 66 .7 84 .4 74.5
HEALTH FC 62.7 78 .7 69 .7 62 .6 84 .6 72 .0
COVERT 76.0 83 .3 79 .5 75 .6 76 .8 76 .2
WIKIPEDIA
SCIFACT 67.9 83 .3 74 .8 68 .8 83 .6 75 .4
PUBMEDQA 65.3 83 .0 73 .1 68 .3 78 .5 73 .2
HEALTH FC 62.9 87 .4 73 .1 65 .2 92 .6 76.5
COVERT 72.4 78 .3 75 .2 78 .5 86 .8 82.5
Table 3: Results of final verdict prediction over four datasets using evidence retrieved from PubMed and Wikipedia.
For both knowledge sources, the evidence from
documents retrieved using semantic search outper-
formed the standard sparse metric BM25. Still,
BM25 fares well compared to the relatively recent
semantic approaches. It is also notable to observe
in Table 3 that BM25 excels in precision more so
than recall, always beating semantic retrieval in
this metric. This is not too surprising consider-
ing BM25 relies on exact keyword matching and
is better suited for this use case. While BM25
slightly beats the dense BioSimCSE in precision,
it is significantly outperformed in recall in the first
three datasets. In deeper analysis, as we will show
in the next section, we saw the dense technique
would more often retrieve articles talking about the
claim content using alternate naming for diseases,
which led to picking up more supporting arguments
for positive claims. COVERT is the only dataset
for which BM25 performed better in the PubMed
setting, in both precision and recall. Considering
the noisy nature of this dataset (tweets and infor-
mal language), the inverse document frequency
(idf) feature of BM25 was better at finding exact
matches for important but rare keywords mentioned
in the tweets and ignoring the more common but
unimportant words. On the other hand, the poorer
performance of the dense technique could be be-
cause the embedding was swayed in vector space
due to noisy irrelevant topics from tweets.
When looking at the performance of claim ver-
ification systems over Wikipedia in Table 3, it is
once again apparent that dense retrieval found more
relevant documents with better evidence and out-
performed the sparse retrieval. Nevertheless, in
this case, the precision of BM25 was worse than
BioSimCSE. In general, recall in all settings was
higher than the ones from PubMed and precision
lower, which shows better prediction of the positive
(supported) class but also its over-prediction.
Google Snippets
Dataset Precision Recall F1 Score
SCIFACT 75.5 91 .5 82 .7
PUBMEDQA 66.7 95 .6 78 .5
HEALTH FC 62.3 92 .6 74 .5
COVERT 76.4 68 .7 72 .3
Table 4: Results of final verdict prediction over four
datasets using evidence retrieved from "the whole web"
(using Google).
Another experiment consisted of querying "the
whole web" in order to find relevant evidence for
a verdict. This is a common setting explored as
one of the straightforward baselines in some fact
verification papers (Gupta and Srikumar, 2021; Hu
et al., 2022) and it mimics how humans would be-
gin the process of a claim checking. Table 4 reports
on this performance. Considering the short nature
of Google snippets, they usually do not actually
provide "evidence" but commonly the verdict on
the claim itself as reported on the source website
containing the snippet.
At first glance, the performance with Google
search seems impressive, especially considering
that for the two most challenging datasets, SCI-
FACT and PUBMEDQA, the performance is im-
proved when compared to the first two tables. A
more careful look reveals this to be an artefact
2107

--- PAGE 6 ---
Claim PubMed (semantic) Wikipedia (semantic)
Can regular intake
of vitamin C prevent
colds? (Refuted)
Nevertheless, given the consistent effect of vitamin C on the
duration and severity of colds in the regular supplementation
studies, and the low cost and safety, it may be worthwhile for
common cold patients to test on an individual basis whether
therapeutic vitamin C is beneficial for them. (Hemilä and Chalker,
2013) (Supported)
According to the most recently published Cochrane review on
vitamin C and the common cold, one gram per day or more
of vitamin C does not influence common cold incidence in the
general community, i.e., it does not prevent colds. ( en wiki:
Vitamin C and the common cold ) (Refuted)
Can lung cancer
screening by com-
puted tomography
(CT) also do harm?
(Supported)
Lung cancer screening with low dose computed tomography (ct)
is the only method ever proven to reduce lung cancer-specific
mortality in high-risk current and former cigarette smokers. We
aim to explain why the risks associated with radiation exposure
from lung cancer screening are very low and should not be used
to avoid screening or dissuade... (Frank et al., 2013) (Reftued)
Low-dose CT screening has been associated with falsely positive
test results which may result in unneeded treatment. In a series
of studies assessing the frequence of false positive rates, results
reported that rates ranged from 8-49%.(en wiki: Lung cancer
screening) (Supported)
Can ginkgo extract
relieve the symp-
toms of tinnitus?
(Refuted)
Ginkgo biloba is a plant extract used to alleviate symptoms associ-
ated with cognitive deficits, e.g., decreased memory performance,
lack of concentration, decreased alertness, tinnitus, and dizziness.
Pharmacologic studies have shown that the therapeutic effect of
ginkgo... (Søholm, 1998) (Supported)
Ginkgo leaf extract is commonly used as a dietary supplement,
but there is no scientific evidence that it supports human health or
is effective against any disease. Systematic reviews have shown
there is no evidence for effectiveness of ginkgo in treating high
blood pressure, menopause-related cognitive decline, tinnitus,
post-stroke recovery, or altitude sickness. ( en wiki: Gingko
Bilboa) (Refuted)
The most prevalent
adverse events to
Semaglutide are
gastrointestinal.
(Supported)
We evaluated gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events (AEs) with
once-weekly Semaglutide 2.4 mg in adults with overweight or
obesity and their contribution to weight loss (WL). GI AEs were
more common with semaglutide 2.4 mg than placebo, but typ-
ically mild-to-moderate and transient. (Wharton et al., 2022)
(Supported)
Possible side effects include nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, consti-
pation, abdominal pain, headache, fatigue, indigestion/heartburn,
dizziness, abdominal distension, belching, hypoglycemia (low
blood glucose) in patients with type 2 diabetes, flatulence, gas-
troenteritis, and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) ( en
wiki: Semaglutide ) (Refuted)
Macrolides protect
against myocardial
infarction. (Refuted)
Our findings indicate that macrolide antibiotics as a group are
associated with a significant risk for MI but not for arrhythmia
and cardiovascular mortality. (Gorelik et al., 2018) (Refuted)
Macrolides are a class of natural products that consist of a large
macrocyclic lactone ring to which one or more deoxy sugars,
usually cladinose and desosamine, may be attached. (en wiki:
Macrolide) (Supported)
Table 5: Example claims and retrieved evidence from the two different knowledge bases, where only one of them
provided a correct final verdict.
of data leakage and the way these two datasets
were constructed (a similar phenomenon already
observed in fact-checking datasets, Glockner et al.
(2022)). Considering that in both of them the
claims originate from sentences actually contained
in PubMed abstracts, Google Search is powerful
enough to be able to find the exact sentence that was
the origin of these claims. The two other datasets,
HEALTH FC and C

--- PAGE 7 ---
Claim BM25 (PubMed) Semantic (PubMed)
Do heat patches
containing capsaicin
help with neck pain?
(Refuted)
The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of a hy-
drogel patch containing capsaicin 0.1% compared with a placebo
hydrogel patch without capsaicin to treat chronic myofascial
neck pain (...) There was no significant difference between the
two groups in any of the outcome measures. (Refuted)
In two randomized trials, a single 60-min application of the cap-
saicin 8% patch reduced pain scores significantly more than a
low-concentration (0.04%) capsaicin control patch in patients
with PHN. (Supported)
Does a herbal com-
bination of rosemary,
lovage, and centaury
relieve symptoms of
uncomplicated cysti-
tis? (Supported)
The herbal medicinal product Canephron ® N contains BNO
2103, a defined mixture of pulverized rosemary leaves, cen-
taury herb, and lovage root(...) When given orally, BNO 2103
reduced inflammation and hyperalgesia in experimental cystitis
in rats. (Supported)
Rosmarinus officinalis l., rosemary, is traditionally used to treat
headache and improve cardiovascular disease partly due to its
vasorelaxant activity, while the vasorelaxant ingredients remain
unclear. (Refuted)
The extracellular
domain of TMEM27
is cleaved in hu-
man beta cells.
(Supported)
Here, we report the identification and characterization of trans-
membrane protein 27 (TMEM27, collectrin) in pancreatic beta
cells. (Supported)
We also show that TMEM2 is strongly expressed in endothelial
cells in the subcapsular sinus of lymph nodes and in the liver
sinusoid, two primary sites implicated in systemic HA turnover.
(Refuted)
Normal expression
of RUNX1 causes
tumorsupressing
effects. (Supported)
RUNX1 is a well characterized transcription factor essential for
hematopoietic differentiation and RUNX1 mutations are the cause
of leukemias. runx1 is highly expressed in normal epithelium of
most glands and recently has been associated with solid tumors.
(Refuted)
RUNX gene over-expression inhibits growth of primary cells but
transforms cells with tumor suppressor defects, consistent with
reported associations with tumor progression. (Supported)
Table 6: Example claims and retrieved evidence from PubMed, using the two different retrieval techniques, where
only one of them provided a correct final verdict.
health concerns people search for on the Internet.
This means there is often systematic reviews done
on these claims and Wikipedia encourages citing
systematic reviews in its articles when available.
We noticed our system often retrieved sentences
mentioning reviews. Table 5 shows in first three
rows how this led to the correct verdict prediction
for Wikipedia, but incorrect for PubMed, since
the PubMed retriever found standalone studies that
might disagree from the research consensus. For
327 claims in HealthFC, combined evidence re-
trieved from Wikipedia mentions "systematic re-
view" 89 times, while "Cochrane review"6 is men-
tioned 60 times (for 1000 claims in PubMedQA,
the number is 29 and 11). On the other hand, row
4 of Table 5 shows an example of evidence from
Wikipedia being too broad and generalized, while
row 5 shows a claim for which there was simply no
relevant evidence in the Wikipedia article. For spe-
cialized claims concerning deeper medical knowl-
edge or specific research hypotheses, PubMed is a
superior knowledge base.
5.2 Precision and Coverage
The comparison between the two retrieval tech-
niques in Table 3 shows that semantic search out-
performs BM25 in all cases, except for CoVERT on
PubMed (F1: 79.5). Considering that most systems
from existing work on automated fact-checking use
only BM25 in their pipelines, these results can mo-
tivate future research towards deploying semantic
6Cochrane is an international organization formed to syn-
thesize medical research findings.
search with different sentence embedding models.
Dense retrieval’s ability to deal with synonyms and
paraphrases is especially important in the med

--- PAGE 9 ---
paper corpus even further to 20 million abstracts,
and analyzes other knowledge sources and retrieval
methods. In Pugachev et al. (2023), the authors
take consumer-health question datasets and test the
predictive performance of a system using PubMed
and Wikipedia. A bigger focus was put on fine-
tuning the models on different datasets and testing
the efficiency of built-in searche engines of the re-
spective databases. Furthermore, Stammbach et al.
(2023) test the performance of six fact-checking
datasets from different domains (including encyclo-
pedic, political) using evidence retrieved from three
different knowledge bases, while looking solely at
one biomedical dataset and one retrieval technique
(BM25). Also related is the work by Sauchuk et al.
(2022), which shows the clear importance of the
document-retrieval component of the fact-checking
pipeline on the performance of the whole system.
To the best of our knowledge, our paper features
the biggest corpora (using the entirety of available
PubMed and Wikipedia dumps, with 20.6M and
6.6M articles), searches "the whole web", analyzes
different retrieval techniques (BM25 and semantic),
and analyzes datasets of different type and purpose:
expert-geared research claims (SCIFACT and PUB-
MEDQA), and organic user-posed health claims
(HEALTH FC and C OVERT).
7 Conclusion
In this paper, we conducted a number of ex-
periments assessing the performance of a fact-
verification system in an open-domain setting.
Moving away from the standard setup of a
small evidence corpus, we expand the knowledge
sources to two large document bases (PubMed and
Wikipedia), searching the whole web via Google
Search API, and experiment with two retrieval tech-
niques (sparse and dense). We measured the verdict
prediction performance over four established fact-
checking datasets. Our results show that search-
ing for evidence in the open domain provides sat-
isfyingly high F1 performance, not far from the
closed-domain setting, with a room for further im-
provement. We conclude that the knowledge source
perform comparably, with Wikipedia being better
for popular and trending claims and PubMed for
technical inquiries. We demonstrate the general
superiority of dense retrieval techniques, with ex-
amples of where it falls short and BM25 retrieval
would be beneficial. We hope our research will
encourage more exploration of the open-domain
setting in the NLP fact-checking community and
addressing real-world misinformation scenarios.
Limitations
In this study, we performed automatic assessment
of claims related to medicine and health. These are
two sensitive fields where misinformation, model
hallucination, and incorrect evidence retrieval can
lead to harmful consequences, misinformation
spread, and societal effects. The automated sci-
entific fact-verification system described in this
work is still far from being safe and consistent for
adoption in the real world, due to imperfect per-
formance and drawbacks that arise. In case such
an automated fact-verification system would be de-
ployed and produce misleading verdicts, this could
decrease the trust in the potential use and develop-
ment of such solutions.
In our work, for easier comparison we disregard
claims annotated with NOT ENOUGH INFORMA -
TION due to different definitions of this label across
different datasets and also absence of it in some
datasets. This is an important label in claim veri-
fication, since not all claims can be conclusively
assessed for their veracity. Future work should find
a way to effectively include this label into model
predictions. This is especially important in the sci-
entific domain considering the constantly evolving
nature of scientific knowledge, and sometimes con-
flicting evidence from different research studies.
Lastly, the fact-checking pipeline used in this pa-
per is a complex system with multiple factors – the
choice of the retrieval method, of the sentence se-
lection model, the top k value, the NLI model, and

--- PAGE 10 ---
References
Isabelle Augenstein, Christina Lioma, Dongsheng
Wang, Lucas Chaves Lima, Casper Hansen, Chris-
tian Hansen, and Jakob Grue Simonsen. 2019. Mul-
tiFC: A real-world multi-domain dataset for evidence-
based fact checking of claims. In Proceedings of
the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natu-
ral Language Processing and the 9th International
Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing
(EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 4685–4697, Hong Kong,
China. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Razieh Baradaran, Razieh Ghiasi, and Hossein
Amirkhani. 2022. A survey on machine reading com-
prehension systems. Natural Language Engineering,
28(6):683–732.
Danqi Chen and Wen-tau Yih. 2020. Open-domain
question answering. In Proceedings of the 58th An-
nual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: Tutorial Abstracts, pages 34–37, Online.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Thomas Diggelmann, Jordan L. Boyd-Graber, Jannis
Bulian, Massimiliano Ciaramita, and Markus Leip-
pold. 2021. Climate-fever: A dataset for verification
of real-world climate claims. ArXiv, abs/2012.00614.
Susannah Fox and Maeve Duggan. 2013. Health online
2013. Health, 2013:1–55.
Luba Frank, Emmanuel Christodoulou, and Ella A Kaze-
rooni. 2013. Radiation risk of lung cancer screening.
Semin. Respir. Crit. Care Med., 34(6):738–747.
Tianyu Gao, Xingcheng Yao, and Danqi Chen. 2021.
SimCSE: Simple contrastive learning of sentence em-
beddings. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference
on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process-
ing, pages 6894–6910, Online and Punta Cana, Do-
minican Republic. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Max Glockner, Yufang Hou, and Iryna Gurevych. 2022.
Missing counter-evidence renders NLP fact-checking
unrealistic for misinformation. In Proceedings of
the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Nat-
ural Language Processing, pages 5916–5936, Abu
Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for Com-
putational Linguistics.
Rita González-Márquez, Luca Schmidt, Benjamin M.
Schmidt, Philipp Berens, and Dmitry Kobak. 2023.
The landscape of biomedical research. bioRxiv.
Einat Gorelik, Reem Masarwa, Amichai Perlman, Vic-
toria Rotshild, Mordechai Muszkat, and Ilan Matok.
2018. Systematic review, meta-analysis, and net-
work meta-analysis of the cardiovascular safety of
macrolides. Antimicrob. Agents Chemother., 62(6).
Zhijiang Guo, Michael Schlichtkrull, and Andreas Vla-
chos. 2022. A survey on automated fact-checking.
Transactions of the Association for Computational
Linguistics, 10:178–206.
Ashim Gupta and Vivek Srikumar. 2021. X-fact: A new
benchmark dataset for multilingual fact checking. In
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Pengcheng He, Xiaodong Liu, Jianfeng Gao, and
Weizhu Chen. 2021. Deberta: Decoding-enhanced
bert with disentangled attention. In International
Conference on Learning Representations.
Harri Hemilä and Elizabeth Chalker. 2013. Vitamin
C for preventing and treating the common cold.
Cochrane Database Syst. Rev., 2013(1):CD000980.
Xuming Hu, Zhijiang Guo, GuanYu Wu, Aiwei Liu,
Lijie Wen, and Philip Yu. 2022. CHEF: A pilot Chi-
nese dataset for evidence-based fact-checking. In
Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics: Human Language Technologies,
pages 3362–3376, Seattle, United States. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Qiao Jin, Bhuwan Dhingra, Zhengping Liu, William
Cohen, and Xinghua Lu. 2019. PubMedQA: A
dataset for biomedical research question answering.
In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing and the
9th International Joint Conference on Natural Lan-
guage Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 2567–
2577, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.
Chris Kamphuis, Arjen P de Vries, Leonid Boytsov, and
Jimmy Lin. 2020. Which bm25 do you mean? a
large-scale reproducibility study of scoring variants.
In Advances in Inform

--- PAGE 11 ---
Elisa Leonardelli, Gavin Abercrombie, Dina Almanea,
Valerio Basile, Tommaso Fornaciari, Barbara Plank,
Verena Rieser, Alexandra Uma, and Massimo Poe-
sio. 2023. SemEval-2023 task 11: Learning with
disagreements (LeWiDi). In Proceedings of the
17th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation
(SemEval-2023), pages 2304–2318, Toronto, Canada.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Isabelle Mohr, Amelie Wührl, and Roman Klinger. 2022.
Covert: A corpus of fact-checked biomedical covid-
19 tweets. In Proceedings of the Language Resources
and Evaluation Conference , pages 244–257, Mar-
seille, France. European Language Resources Asso-
ciation.
Preslav Nakov, David P. A. Corney, Maram Hasanain,
Firoj Alam, Tamer Elsayed, Alberto Barr’on-Cedeno,
Paolo Papotti, Shaden Shaar, and Giovanni Da San
Martino. 2021. Automated fact-checking for assist-
ing human fact-checkers. In International Joint Con-
ference on Artificial Intelligence.
Dan S Nielsen and Ryan McConville. 2022. Mumin:
A large-scale multilingual multimodal fact-checked
misinformation social network dataset. In Proceed-
ings of the 45th International ACM SIGIR Confer-
ence on Research and Development in Information
Retrieval, pages 3141–3153.
Liangming Pan, Xiaobao Wu, Xinyuan Lu, Anh Tuan
Luu, William Yang Wang, Min-Yen Kan, and Preslav
Nakov. 2023. Fact-checking complex claims with
program-guided reasoning. In Proceedings of the
61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages
6981–7004, Toronto, Canada. Association for Com-
putational Linguistics.
Alexander Pugachev, Ekaterina Artemova, Alexander
Bondarenko, and Pavel Braslavski. 2023. Consumer
health question answering using off-the-shelf com-
ponents. In European Conference on Information
Retrieval, pages 571–579. Springer.
Anna Rogers, Matt Gardner, and Isabelle Augenstein.
2023. Qa dataset explosion: A taxonomy of nlp
resources for question answering and reading com-
prehension. ACM Computing Surveys, 55(10):1–45.
Arkadiy Saakyan, Tuhin Chakrabarty, and Smaranda
Muresan. 2021. COVID-fact: Fact extraction and
verification of real-world claims on COVID-19 pan-
demic. In Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meet-
ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics
and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natu-
ral Language Processing (Volume 1: Long Papers),
pages 2116–2129, Online. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.
Mourad Sarrouti, Asma Ben Abacha, Yassine M’rabet,
and Dina Demner-Fushman. 2021. Evidence-based
fact-checking of health-related claims. In Findings
of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
EMNLP 2021, pages 3499–3512.
Artsiom Sauchuk, James Thorne, Alon Halevy, Nicola
Tonellotto, and Fabrizio Silvestri. 2022. On the role
of relevance in natural language processing tasks. In
Proceedings of the 45th International ACM SIGIR
Conference on Research and Development in Infor-
mation Retrieval, pages 1785–1789.
Tal Schuster, Adam Fisch, and Regina Barzilay. 2021.
Get your vitamin C! robust fact verification with
contrastive evidence. In Proceedings of the 2021
Conference of the North American Chapter of the
Association for Computational Linguistics: Human
Language Technologies, pages 624–643, Online. As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
B Søholm. 1998. Clinical improvement of memory and
other cognitive functions by ginkgo biloba: review
of relevant literature. Adv. Ther., 15(1):54–65.
Dominik Stammbach, Boya Zhang, and Elliott Ash.
2023. The choice of textual knowledge base in au-
tomated claim checking. ACM Journal of Data and
Information Quality, 15(1):1–22.
Briony Swire-Thompson, David Lazer, et al. 2020. Pub-
lic health and online misinformation: challenges
and recommendations. Annu Rev Public Health ,
41(1):433–451.
James Thorne, Andreas Vlachos, Christos
Christodoulopoulos, and Arpit Mittal. 2018.
FEVER: a large-scale dataset for fact extraction
and VERification. In Proceedings of the 2018
Conference of the North American Chap

--- PAGE 12 ---
Juraj Vladika, Phillip Schneider, and Florian Matthes.
2023b. Healthfc: A dataset of health claims for
evidence-based medical fact-checking.
David Wadden, Shanchuan Lin, Kyle Lo, Lucy Lu
Wang, Madeleine van Zuylen, Arman Cohan, and
Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2020. Fact or fiction: Verifying
scientific claims. In Proceedings of the 2020 Con-
ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing (EMNLP), pages 7534–7550, Online. As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
David Wadden, Kyle Lo, Bailey Kuehl, Arman Cohan,
Iz Beltagy, Lucy Lu Wang, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi.
2022. SciFact-open: Towards open-domain scientific
claim verification. In Findings of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2022, pages
4719–4734, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Somin Wadhwa, Vivek Khetan, Silvio Amir, and By-
ron Wallace. 2023. RedHOT: A corpus of annotated
medical questions, experiences, and claims on social
media. In Findings of the Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics: EACL 2023 , pages 809–827,
Dubrovnik, Croatia. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Sean Wharton, Salvatore Calanna, Melanie Davies,
Dror Dicker, Bryan Goldman, Ildiko Lingvay, Ofri
Mosenzon, Domenica M Rubino, Mette Thomsen,
Thomas A Wadden, and Sue D Pedersen. 2022. Gas-
trointestinal tolerability of once-weekly semaglutide
2.4 mg in adults with overweight or obesity, and the
relationship between gastrointestinal adverse events
and weight loss. Diabetes Obes. Metab., 24(1):94–
105.
Dustin Wright, Jiaxin Pei, David Jurgens, and Isabelle
Augenstein. 2022a. Modeling information change in
science communication with semantically matched
paraphrases. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference
on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process-
ing, pages 1783–1807, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emi-
rates. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Dustin Wright, David Wadden, Kyle Lo, Bailey Kuehl,
Arman Cohan, Isabelle Augenstein, and Lucy Lu
Wang. 2022b. Generating scientific claims for zero-
shot scientific fact checking. In Proceedings of the
60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages
2448–2460, Dublin, Ireland. Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics.
Xia Zeng, Amani S Abumansour, and Arkaitz Zubiaga.
2021. Automated fact-checking: A survey. Lan-
guage and Linguistics Compass, 15(10):e12438.
Zhiwei Zhang, Jiyi Li, Fumiyo Fukumoto, and Yanming
Ye. 2021. Abstract, rationale, stance: A joint model
for scientific claim verification. In Proceedings of the
2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing, pages 3580–3586.
2114

